Shore Leave
Stardate: 3025.3
Original Airdate: 29 Dec, 1966
Scene: Bridge.
Enterprise is orbiting a very green planet, and a young female Yeoman is getting a signature from the Captain.
Kirk said: Anything from the landing party?
Spock said: They should be sending up a report momentarily, Captain. (Kirk stretches and groans) Something wrong?
Kirk said: A kink in my back. (behind his back the Yeoman starts to massage it) That's it. A little higher, please. Push. Push hard. Dig it in there, Mister
Spock steps forward and Kirk realises who is massaging his lower back
Kirk said: Thank you, Yeoman. That's sufficient.
Tonia said: You need sleep, Captain. If it's not out of line
Kirk said: I have enough of that from Doctor McCoy, Yeoman. Thank you.
Spock said: Doctor McCoy is correct, Captain. After what this ship has been through in the last three months, there is not a crewman aboard who is not in need of rest. Myself excepted, of course.
Kirk said: Have Doctor McCoy's report channeled to my quarters, Lieutenant.
Uhura said: Aye, aye, Captain.
Scene: Planet surface - Glade.
Sulu said: Beautiful, beautiful. No animals, no people, no worries. Just what the doctor ordered. Right, Doctor?
Mccoy said: I couldn't have prescribed better. We are one weary ship.
Sulu said: Do you think the Captain will authorise shore leave here?
Mccoy said: Depending upon my report and that of the other scouting parties. You know, you have to see this place to believe it. It's like something out of Alice in Wonderland. The Captain has to come down.
Sulu said: He'd like it.
Mccoy said: He needs it. You've got your problems, I've got mine. He's got ours, plus his, plus four hundred and thirty other people's. Where are you going?
Sulu said: To get some cell-structure records. A blade of grass, a bush, a tree, a flower petal. With these, we can tell the whole planet's biology.
As Sulu crouches down behind some pampas grass, McCoy turns and looks straight at a white rabbit in a check jacket, yellow waistcoat, and looking at a gold pocket-watch.
Rabbit said: Oh, my paws and whiskers! I'll be late.
It heads off down a hole. Then a young girl comes running up, wearing a blue dress with a white apron.
Alice said: Excuse me, sir. Have you seen a rather large white rabbit with a yellow waistcoat and white gloves here about?
Wordlessly, McCoy points in the direction the rabbit went. The girl curtseys nicely
Alice said: Thank you very much.
She runs off after the rabbit
Mccoy said: Sulu!
Sulu said: What is it? What's the matter?
Mccoy said: Did you see them?
Sulu said: See what? I don't see anything. What is it, Doc?
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
The Captain is dictating his log in the presence of Yeoman Tonia Barrows
Kirk said: Captain's log. Stardate 3025 er, point 3. We are orbiting an uninhabited planet in the Omicron Delta region. A planet remarkably like Earth, or how we remember Earth to be. Park-like, beautiful, green, flowers, trees, green lawn, quiet and restful. Almost too good to be true.
Tonia said: Sir, I don't see your name in any of the shore parties.
Kirk said: I may be tired, Yeoman, but I'm not falling apart. Dismissed.
Tonia said: Aye, aye, sir.
She leaves, and Spock enters
Kirk said: Mister Spock, we're beaming down the starboard section first. Which section would you like to go with?
Spock said: Not necessary in my case, Captain. On my planet, to rest is to rest, to cease using energy. To me, it is quite illogical to run up and down on green grass using energy instead of saving it.
Intercom whistles
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Uhura said: Doctor McCoy calling from the planet, Captain.
Kirk said: Yes. Open a channel, Uhura.
Uhura said: Aye, aye, sir.
Scene: Glade.
Mccoy said: Captain, are you beaming down?
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Kirk said: I hadn't planned to, Bones. Why?
Scene: Glade.
Mccoy said: Well, either our scouting probes and detectors are malfunctioning, and all us scouts careless and beauty-intoxicated, or I must report myself unfit for duty.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Kirk said: Explain.
Scene: Glade.
Mccoy said: On this supposedly uninhabited planet, I just saw a large rabbit
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Mccoy said: Pull a gold watch from his vest and claim that he was late.
Kirk said: That's pretty good. I got one for you. The rabbit was followed by a little blonde girl, right?
Scene: Glade.
Mccoy said: As a matter of fact, yes.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Mccoy said: And they disappeared through a hole in a hedge.
Kirk said: All right, Doctor, I'll take your report under consideration. Captain out. That's a McCoy pill, with a little mystery sugar-coating. He wants to get me down there. I'm afraid I won't swallow it.
Spock said: Very well, Captain. Something I did come to discuss.
Kirk said: Yes, Mister Spock, what is it?
Spock said: I picked this up from Doctor McCoy's log. We have a crewmember aboard who's showing signs of stress and fatigue. Reaction time down nine to twelve percent, associational reading norm minus three.
Kirk said: That's much too low a rating.
Spock said: He's becoming irritable and quarrelsome, yet he refuses to take rest and rehabilitation. Now, He has that right, but we've found
Kirk said: A crewman's right ends where the safety of the ship begins. That man will go a shore on my orders. What's his name?
Spock said: James Kirk. Enjoy yourself, Captain. It's an interesting planet. You'll find it quite pleasant. Very much like your Earth.
Scene: Planet surface.
An establishing shot of a landscape
Spock said: Scouts have detected no animals, artefacts, or force fields of any kind. Only peace, sunshine, and good air. You'll have no problems.
But as these words are spoken, a rock raises itself to reveal a classic western-style six shooter gun.
Elsewhere, a man and a woman are taking scans of the vegetation
Teller said: (the woman) Does it always have to be work with you? There's so much loveliness.
Rodriguez said: You won't find all this so lovely if our report for the Captain isn't ready when he asks for it, which shouldn't be long.
Kirk and Barrows beam down
Kirk said: Rodriguez, Teller, everything all right?
Rodriguez said: Yes, sir. We've completed the specimen survey.
Kirk said: Good. That should be sufficient. Beam it up to Mister Spock when you're ready, and start enjoying yourselves.
Rodriguez said: Thank you, sir. And sir, I think you'll find Doctor McCoy and Mister Sulu that way.
Kirk said: Thank you.
Walking along
Kirk said: Restful. After what we've been through, it's hard to believe a place this beautiful exists.
Tonia said: It is beautiful. So lovely, and restful. I mean, affirmative, Captain.
Kirk said: McCoy! McCoy!
Mccoy said: Over here. Over here.
They meet up by the lake
Kirk said: Bones, know any good rabbit jokes lately?
Mccoy said: As a matter of fact, I do, but this is not one of them. Look at this. (a pair of large tracks in the soil) I saw what I saw, or maybe I hallucinated it, but I want you to take a look and tell me what you think about it.
Kirk said: Footprints. Could be a rabbit. It would have to be an unusual creature to make this size tracks. What about Mister Sulu? Will he confirm what you saw?
Mccoy said: Negative. He was examining the flora at the time.
Kirk said: Bridge, this is the Captain.
Tonia said: Where is Mister Sulu?
Mccoy said: Collecting specimens.
Uhura said: Bridge.
Kirk said: Has the first shore party beamed down yet?
Uhura said: Negative, Captain. They're just about to start.
Kirk said: Get this message to all shore parties. Stand by. No one is to leave the ship.
Uhura said: Aye, aye, sir.
Mccoy said: You're cancelling the shore leave on account of this, Jim?
Kirk said: You're the doctor, Doctor. Can you explain this?
Mccoy said: Well, no.
Kirk said: Neither can I. I admit it looks harmless. It probably is harmless. But before I bring my people down here, I want proof it's harmless.
They hear a gunshot. Kirk draws his phaser and they head off in the direction of the shot. More are fired.
Scene: Woodland path.
They find Sulu target practising
Kirk said: What do you think you're doing?
Sulu said: Target shooting, Captain. Isn't it a beauty? Haven't got anything like this in my collection.
Kirk said: Where did you get it, Mister Sulu?
Sulu said: I found it. I know it's a crazy coincidence, but I've always wanted one like this. Found it lying right over there. An old-time police special, and in beautiful condition. Hasn't been one like this made in a couple of centuries.
Kirk said: (holding out his hand for the offending weapon) Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: (handing it over) It fires lead pellets propelled by expanding gases from a chemical explosion.
Kirk said: I'll hang on to it. The fresh air seems to have made you trigger-happy.
Tonia said: Doctor McCoy's rabbit, sir. He must have gone through here.
Kirk said: Are you sure our instruments didn't show any animal life on this planet?
Mccoy said: Absolutely. No birds, no mammals, no insects, nothing. I'm certain our readings weren't off.
Kirk said: I'd like to believe this is an elaborate gag, but. Yeoman Barrows, you accompany Mister Sulu. Find out where those tracks came from. Doctor, you come with me back to the glade. I'd like another look at that area.
As they head back, an aerial comes up in front of our point of view and follows them.
Kirk said: This is turning out to be one very unusual shore leave.
Mccoy said: Well, it could have been worse.
Kirk said: How?
Mccoy said: You could have seen the rabbit.
Kirk said: What's the matter, Bones, you getting a persecution complex?
Mccoy said: Well, yeah, I'm beginning to feel a little bit picked on, if that's what you mean.
Kirk said: I know the feeling very well. I had it at the Academy. An upper classman there. One practical joke after another, and always on me. My own personal devil. A guy by the name of Finnegan.
Mccoy said: And you being the very serious young
Kirk said: Serious? I'll make a confession, Bones. I was absolutely grim, which delighted Finnegan no end. He's the kind of guy to put a bowl of cold soup in your bed or a bucket of water propped on a half-open door. You never knew where he'd strike next. More tracks. Looks like your rabbit came from over there.
Mccoy said: A girl's footprints. The young blonde girl I saw chasing it.
Kirk said: Yes. You follow the rabbit. I'll backtrack the girl. I'll meet you around the other side of the hill.
Mccoy said: Good. I've got a personal grudge against that rabbit, Jim.
They split up, and then suddenly there's a young man leaning against a tree trunk
Finnegan said: (in a dreadful cod-Irish accent) Jim.
Kirk said: Finnegan? I can't believe it.
Finnegan said: You never know when I'm going to strike, huh, Jim? (hits him on the jaw) How's this? Come on, come on. It's me, Finnegan. All right, Jimmy boy. (maniacal laughter) Go ahead, lay one on me. That's what you always wanted, isn't it? Come on. Come on.
Kirk said: All right, let's try that one again. Go!
He just lays hands on Finnegan for a good fight, when they hear screams. Kirk runs off to investigate
Finnegan said: Go! Any excuse, Jim baby. Run away! Run away! Run away!
Along the path, he meets McCoy
Mccoy said: What was it?
Kirk said: Yeoman Barrows.
They arrive on the scene to find Tonia disheveled, her uniform torn, hugging a tree
Kirk said: What happened?
Tonia said: I don't know. I mean I do know. I was following the tracks, and there he was.
Kirk said: Who was?
Tonia said: Him.
Kirk said: Barrows, give me a report.
Tonia said: He had a cloak, sir, and a dagger with jewels on it.
Kirk said: Are you sure you're not imagining all this?
Tonia said: Captain, I know it sounds incredible, but I did not imagine it any more than I imagined he did this.
Mccoy said: Sounds like Don Juan.
Tonia said: Yes. Yes. It was so sort of story book walking around here, and I was thinking, all a girl needs is Don Juan. Just day dreaming, the way you would about someone you'd like to meet.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu was with you. Where is he now?
Tonia said: He ran after him.
Kirk said: Stay with her, Doctor.
He heads off in the direction she indicates
Kirk said: Mister Sulu! Sulu!
An aerial comes up from a rock and monitors him as he runs along the path
Kirk said: Mister Sulu! Sulu!
Scene: Rocky outcrop.
The Captain runs across a barren piece of ground towards a rocky outcrop, which suddenly gains palms and banana plants when he gets there.
Kirk said: Sulu!
He picks an orange flower, and becomes wistful. And there she is, blonde and lovely, her dress half white, half black and roses.
Kirk said: Ruth? Ruth.
Ruth said: Jim, darling, it is me. It is Ruth.
She kisses him
Captain's log. Stardate 3025.8. Investigation of this increasingly unusual planet continues, and we are seeing things that cannot possibly exist, yet they are undeniably real.
Scene: Rocky outcrop.
Kirk said: (into communicator) McCoy, do you read me? Ruth. Ruth, how can it be you? How could you possibly be here? You haven't aged. It's been fifteen years.
Ruth said: It doesn't matter. None of that matters.
His communicator beeps
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Mccoy said: Did you find Mister Sulu, Captain?
Kirk said: What?
Mccoy said: Did you find Mister Sulu?
Kirk said: No, but I'm sure he's all right.
Mccoy said: Sir? Are you all right?
Kirk said: Yes, I'm fine.
Rodriquez said: Rodriguez to Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Yes, Mister Rodriguez.
Rodriquez said: Captain, a while ago, I saw well, birds, a whole flock of them.
Kirk said: Don't you like birds, Mister Rodriguez?
Rodriquez said: I like them fine, sir, but all our surveys showed
KIRK; Then offhand I'd say our instruments are defective. There are indeed life-forms on this planet.
Rodriquez said: Sir, our surveys couldn't have been that wrong.
Kirk said: Mister Rodriguez, have the search parties rendezvous at the glade. I'd like some answers to all this.
Rodriquez said: Aye, aye, sir.
Ruth said: You have to go?
Kirk said: I don't want to.
Ruth said: You'll see me again if you want to.
Kirk said: You haven't told me. You haven't told me
Ruth said: Do what you have to do, and I'll be waiting.
Kirk said: Ruth.
communicator beeps
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Spock said: Captain.
Kirk said: Yes, Mister Spock.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: I'm getting strange readings from the planet surface, Captain. Some sort of power field down there.
Scene: Rocky outcrop.
Kirk said: Specify.
Spock said: A highly sophisticated type of energy draining our power and increasing, beginning to affect our communications.
Kirk said: Can you pinpoint the source?
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Could be coming from beneath the planet's surface. Patterns indicate some sort of industrial activity.
Scene: Rocky outcrop.
Kirk said: Keep me posted, Mister Spock. We'll continue our investigation down here. Captain out.
He walks off
Scene: Woodland path.
Meanwhile, back at the tree where Tonia met Don Juan, something is monitoring them. The couple go walking arm in arm through the tropical plants.
Mccoy said: Feeling better?
Tonia said: A little, but I wouldn't want to be alone here.
Mccoy said: It's a beautiful place. A little strange, I'll admit.
Tonia said: That's just it. It's almost too beautiful. I was thinking, even before my tunic was torn, that in a place like this a girl should be, oh let's see now, a girl should be dressed like a fairy-tale princess, with lots of floaty stuff and a tall hat with a veil.
Mccoy said: I see what you mean, but then you'd have whole armies of Don Juans to fight off. And me, too.
Tonia said: Is that a promise, Doctor?
He takes her hands in his, and they gaze into each others eyes for a long second. Then she spots her dream clothing hanging on some shrubs
Tonia said: Oh, Doctor, they're lovely. Look at me, Doctor. A lady to be protected and fought for. A princess of the blood royale.
Mccoy said: You are all of those things and many more. They'll look even lovelier with you wearing them.
Tonia said: Doctor, I'm afraid.
Mccoy said: Now, look, I don't know how or why, but the dress is here. I'd like to see you in it. Why don't you put it on?
Tonia said: All right, but you stay right there. Don't peek.
Mccoy said: My dear girl, I am a doctor. When I peek, it's in the line of duty.
he turns his back on her, and his communicator beeps
Rodriguez said: Calling Doctor McCoy.
Mccoy said: McCoy here. I can't read you very well. Is this Rodriguez?
Rodriguez said: This is all the volume I can get on this thing. Can't read you well, either. Captain's orders. Rendezvous at that glade where he first found you.
Mccoy said: Right. What the devil's wrong with communications? Esteban. Esteban.
But Esteban and Teller have problems of their own - a tiger has them trapped
Rodriquez said: Doctor. Doctor. Doctor McCoy!
The tiger gets bored and leaves. Tonia emerges from her changing room looking lovely, and happy in her Disney fantasy creation.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: You're the science officer, Mister Spock. I want some answers.
Scene: Rocky outcrop.
Kirk said: First there was McCoy's Alice in Wonderland where there was supposedly no animal life. And Sulu's gun where there's no refined metal detected. Rodriguez' birds. And then my, well, the two people I saw.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Any chance these could be hallucinations?
Scene: Rocky outcrop.
Kirk said: One hallucination flattened me with a clout on the jaw.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: The other.
Spock said: That sounds like a painful reality.
Scene: Rocky outcrop.
Kirk said: Yes.
Spock said: There must be some logical explanation.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Your signal is very weak. Can you turn up your gain?
Kirk said: I'm already on maximum.
Spock said: Captain, shall I beam down an armed party?
Scene: Rocky outcrop.
Kirk said: Negative. Our people here are armed with phasers. Besides, there's yet to be any real danger. (he sees geese flying overhead) Captain out.
Scene: Cliff face.
Sulu walks along by a cliff face, a hatch opens in the ground and out comes a Samurai to attack him. Sulu's phaser doesn't work and he is forced to dodge the long, sharp sword
Scene: Rocky outcrop.
Kirk said: McCoy. McCoy, do you read me? Kirk to McCoy. Come in.
Sulu comes running over the rocks towards him
Sulu said: Captain, take cover! There's a Samurai after me.
Kirk said: A what?
Sulu said: I mean, there was. (no one is chasing him now) Captain, you've got to believe me.
Kirk said: I do. I've met some interesting personalities myself. Have you seen any of the others while I've been gone?
Sulu said: Got a call a few minutes ago. Rodriguez. Said you were rendezvousing back at the glade.
Kirk said: I hope he got through to everybody. Communications are almost out.
Sulu said: That's not all. So's my phaser.
Kirk checks his own weapon - nothing KIRK: Yeah. We'd better get to the glade.
Sulu said: Yes, sir. (sound of a transporter beam) Look. Someone beaming down from the bridge.
Kirk said: Trying to. Something's obstructing it. (finally the familiar shape fully materialises) Mister Spock, my orders were no one was to leave the ship.
Spock said: Necessary, Captain. Unable to contact you by communicator, and the transporter is useless to us now. As I told you before, there's an unusual power field down here. It's soaking up all the energy at the source. I calculated the rate of its growth, and reasoned that I just might be able to transport one more person.
Kirk said: Good. We can use your help.
Sulu said: We're stranded down here, Captain?
Kirk said: Until we can find out what this is all about.
Scene: Glade.
Tonia said: There's no one here.
Mccoy said: This is where the Captain said to rendezvous. (makes Tonia stand with her back to a tree) I swear I heard someone moving around.
Tonia said: Don't talk like that.
Mccoy said: A princess shouldn't be afraid, not with a brave knight to protect her.
Scene: Rocky outcrop.
The trio hear the snarl of a big cat
Kirk said: That way. Spread out. Let's find it.
Scene: Glade.
A knight in armour on a black horse has appeared, and is coming towards them.
Mccoy said: These things cannot be real. Hallucinations can't harm us. Go back to where you were.
Kirk and Spock arrive on the scene. The knight lowers his lance, charges, and runs McCoy through. Tonia screams. Spock draws his phaser, and Kirk the gun he confiscated from Sulu. He shoots the knight from his horse, then they run to McCoy.
Tonia said: He's dead.
Captain's log, supplemental. All contact with the Enterprise has been lost. We're trapped here. Our ship's surgeon, my personal friend, is dead. We're certain now that whatever we're facing is terribly real.
Scene: Glade.
Tonia said: It's my fault. It never would have happened. It's my fault.
Kirk said: No.
Tonia said: It is, it is. I'm to blame.
Kirk said: Yeoman! We're in trouble. I need every crewman alert and thinking.
Tonia said: Aye, aye, sir.
Sulu said: (at the knight's body) Captain! Captain!
Kirk goes over
Sulu said: You'd better have a look at this, sir. (the knight is a plastic dummy) I don't understand.
Kirk said: Neither do I, Mister Sulu, but before we leave this planet, I will.
Sulu said: It's like a dummy, Captain. It couldn't be alive.
Kirk said: Tricorder?
Sulu said: Still operating, sir.
Kirk said: Mister Spock. (Spock and Sulu swap places, handing over the tricorder) What do you make of that?
Spock said: This is not human skin tissue, Captain. It more closely resembles the cellular casting we use for wound repairs. Much finer, of course.
Kirk said: I want an exact judgment, Mister Spock.
Spock said: This is definitely a mechanical contrivance. It has the same basic cell structure as the plants here, even the trees, the grass.
Kirk said: Are you saying this is a plant, Mister Spock?
Spock said: I'm saying that these are all multicellular castings. The plants, the animals, the people. They're all being manufactured.
Kirk said: By who? And why? And why these particular things?
Spock said: All we know for certain is that they act exactly like the real thing. Just as pleasant or just as deadly.
There's a buzzing sound in the air, and a plane flies overhead
Scene: Woodland path.
Teller said: What is it?
Rodriguez said: Of all the crazy things. Remember what I was telling you a while ago, about the early wars and funny air vehicles they used? That's one of them.
Teller said: Can it hurt us?
Rodriguez said: Not unless it makes a strafing run.
Teller said: A what?
Rodriguez said: The way they used to attack people on the ground. (the plane descends) Come on.
They run along the path, as a second plane joins the first, straight into a clump of trees. Angela falls to the ground having hit the tree.
Rodriguez said: Angela.
Scene: Glade.
Everyone has been watching the air show, then Sulu notices...
Sulu said: Captain!
Kirk said: McCoy's body?
Sulu said: He's gone. Dragged off.
Tonia said: The black knight, too.
Kirk said: Spock?
Spock said: At this point, Captain, my analysis may not sound very scientific.
Kirk said: McCoy's death is a scientific fact.
Spock said: There is one slight possibility, very slim, but nevertheless. Captain, what were your thoughts just before you encountered the people you described?
Kirk said: I was, I was thinking about the Academy. My days
Finnegan said: Hey, Jim baby! I see you brought out reinforcements. Ha! Well, I'm waiting for you, Jimmy boy.
Kirk said: Finnegan. Finnegan! What's been happening to my people?
Finnegan laughs and runs off
Kirk said: Take Sulu. Find McCoy's body. This man is my problem.
Spock said: Captain, wait.
Kirk said: That's an order, Mister Spock.
He runs off after Finnegan
Finnegan said: Here I am! Run!
Scene: Rocky outcrop.
Finnegan said: Jim! Find me! Can't you see me? Come and get me! Here I am! Come on. You never could find your head with both hands! Like it used to be, Jimmy. Remember? (finally Kirk catches up to him, because he's lounging on a ledge) Hey, Jim
Kirk said: I want some answers.
Finnegan said: Coming up.
He jumps on Kirk and they have a fight. Finnegan knocks Kirk down
Finnegan said: Get up. Get up. Get up. Always fight fair, don't you? True officer and gentleman, you. You stupid underclassman. I've got the edge. I'm still twenty years old. Look at you. You're an old man.
The fight resumes, and Kirk punches Finnegan till he falls down a rocky slope and ends up writhing in pain
Finnegan said: I can't move me leg. I can't feel me leg. My back is broken. You've broken me back.
Kirk said: Can you feel that?
He gets kicked to the ground
Finnegan said: Can you feel that, now? (Kirk passes out) Sleep sweet, Jimmy boy. Sleep as long as you like. Sleep forever, Jim boy. Forever and forever.
A little later, Kirk regains consciousness
Finnegan said: Won't you ever learn, Jim boy? You never could take me, you know.
Kirk said: Finnegan. One thing
Finnegan said: Sure. Name it.
Kirk said: Answers.
Finnegan said: Earn them!
He throws dirt in Kirk's face and the exchange of punches resumes until they're both too tired to continue.
Finnegan said: Not bad. Kind of makes up for things, huh, Jim?
Kirk said: A lot of things. What's been happening to my people?
Finnegan said: I never answer questions from plebes, Jimmy boy.
Kirk said: I'm not a plebe. This is today, fifteen years later. What are you doing here?
Finnegan said: I'm being exactly what you expect me to be, Jimmy boy.
Kirk lands the final haymaker that knocks Finnegan out cold
Spock said: Did you enjoy it, Captain?
Kirk said: Yes, I enjoyed it. After all these years. (realisation dawns) I did enjoy it. The one thing I wanted to do after all these years was to beat the tar out of Finnegan.
Spock said: Which supports a theory I've been formulating.
Kirk said: That we're all meeting people and things that we happen to be thinking about at the moment.
Spock said: Yes. Somehow our thoughts are read, these things are quickly manufactured and provided for us.
Kirk said: Dangerous if we happen to be thinking about
Spock said: Yes. We must all control our thoughts.
Kirk said: Difficult.
Spock said: The force field we encountered is obviously underground, manufacturing these things. Passages lead to the surface. Just for example, when Rodriguez thought of a tiger
Kirk said: Spock.
The tiger is behind them, the chain around it's neck tethering it to the spot clearly visible
Kirk said: We've got to get back to the landing party and warn them.
They start to run back to the glade. The aircraft strafe them, Kirk elbows the Samurai out of his way
Scene: Glade.
Tonia has changed back into her uniform when Don Juan sneaks up behind her and grabs her, warding off Sulu and Rodriquez with his sword
Kirk said: Sulu, Rodriguez, Barrows. Front and centre.
Don Juan runs off
Sulu said: Sir.
Kirk said: Don't ask any questions, Sulu. Face front, everyone. Don't talk. Don't breathe. Don't think. You're at attention. Concentrate on that and only that. Concentrate.
Spock said: Captain.
A smiling grey-haired man in a long green robe walks up to Kirk
Kirk said: Who are you?
Caretaker said: I'm the caretaker of this place, Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: You know my name?
Caretaker said: But of course. Lieutenant Rodriguez, Lieutenant Sulu, Yeoman Barrows and Mister Spock. We've just discovered you don't understand all this. These experiences were intended to amuse you.
Kirk said: Amuse? That's your word for what we've been through?
Caretaker said: But none of this is permanent. Here you have to only imagine your fondest wishes, either old ones you wish to relive or new ones, anything at all. Battle, fear, love, triumph. Anything that pleases you can be made to happen.
Spock said: The term is amusement park.
Caretaker said: Of course.
Spock said: An old Earth name for a place where people could go to see and do all sorts of fascinating things.
Caretaker said: This entire planet was constructed for our race of people to come and play.
Sulu said: Play? As advanced as you obviously are, and you still play?
Kirk said: Yes, play, Mister Sulu. The more complex the mind, the greater the need for the simplicity of play.
Caretaker said: Exactly, Captain. How very perceptive of you.
Kirk said: But that still doesn't explain the death of my ship's surgeon.
Mccoy said: Possibly because no one has died, Jim. (Strolls in with a lovely girl on each arm) I was taken below the surface for some rather remarkable repairs. It's amazing. They've got a factory complex down there you wouldn't believe. They can build or do anything immediately.
Tonia said: (not amused) And how do you explain them?
Mccoy said: Oh. Them. Well I, er, I was thinking about a little cabaret I know on Rigel Two, and, er, there were these two girls in the chorus line. And well, here they are. Well after all, I am on shore leave.
Tonia said: And so am l.
Mccoy said: Oh, yes. So you are. Well, girls, I suppose you can turn something up.
The cabaret girls go to Sulu and Spock.
Caretaker said: We regret that some of you've been made uncomfortable.
Kirk said: You say your people built all this. Who are you? What planet are you from?
Caretaker said: My impression is that your race is not yet ready to understand us, Captain.
Spock said: I tend to agree.
a communicator beeps
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Uhura said: This is the bridge, Captain. Our power systems have just come back in. Do you require assistance?
Kirk said: No, everything is in order, Lieutenant. Stand by.
Caretaker said: However.
Uhura said: Aye, aye, sir.
Caretaker said: If you would use the proper caution, this amusement planet of ours could be an ideal place for your people to enjoy themselves, if you wish.
Mccoy said: It's what the doctor ordered, Jim.
Kirk said: Lieutenant.
Uhura said: Sir?
Kirk said: Commence transporting shore leave parties. Tell them to prepare for the best shore leave they've ever had. Kirk out.
Spock said: (handing the girl over to Sulu) Captain, I'll go back aboard ship and take over. With all due respect to the young lady, I've already had as much shore leave as I care for.
Kirk said: No, Mister Spock. I'll go. You. (then he sees Ruth walking towards the group) On the other hand, I'll stay for a day or two.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Did you enjoy your rest, gentlemen?
Kirk said: Yes, we did, Mister Spock. I think we did.
Mccoy said: Indeed we did, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Most illogical.
Kirk said: Ahead warp factor one, Mister Sulu.