The Menagerie, part 1
Stardate:3012.4
Original Airdate: 17 Nov, 1966
Scene: Starbase 11, outside.
Piper said: Welcome to Starbase Eleven, Captain. The Commodore's waiting to see you. He's curious why you suddenly changed course and came here.
Kirk said: We received a subspace message asking us to divert here immediately.
Piper said: This base sent no message, Captain.
Scene: Mendez' office.
Mendez said: Oh, Jim, I just can't understand this.
Kirk said: Mister Spock received a starbase transmission, a message from the former commander of the Enterprise, Fleet Captain Pike, urgently requesting that we divert here.
Mendez said: Impossible.
Kirk said: If my first officer states he received a transmission from
Mendez said: Jim, I'm not doubting anyone's word. I'm simply telling you it's impossible.
Kirk said: Why?
Mendez said: You don't know? You actually don't know what's happened to Captain Pike? There's been subspace chatter about it for months. I'm sorry to have to be the one to show you. He's upstairs in the medical section.
Scene: Intensive Care Area.
Mendez said: You ever met Chris Pike?
Kirk said: When he was promoted to Fleet Captain.
Mendez said: About your age. Big, handsome man, vital, active.
Kirk said: I took over the Enterprise from him. Spock served with him for several years.
Spock said: Eleven years, four months, five days.
Mccoy said: What's his problem, Commodore?
Mendez said: Inspection tour of a cadet vessel. Old Class J starship. One of the baffle plates ruptured.
Mccoy said: The delta rays?
Mendez said: He went in bringing out all those kids that were still alive. Just wanted you gentlemen to be prepared.
Scene: Pike's room.
Mendez said: Captain Pike. (a scarred head and shoulders sticking out of wheelchair device) Captain, you remember these gentlemen. They wanted to visit you. Two flashes mean no. I thought you might make an exception for them. (flash, flash) I'm sorry, gentlemen.
Kirk said: Chris, if there's anything I can do for you. (flash, flash)
Spock said: Captain Pike, may I remain for a moment? (flash, the others leave) You know why I've come, Captain. It's only six days away at maximum warp and I have it well-planned. (flash, flash) I have never disobeyed your orders before, Captain, but this time I must. (flash, flash) I know. I know it is treachery and it's mutiny. but I must do this. (flash, flash) I have no choice. (flash, flash)
Scene: Mendez' office.
Kirk said: Once more, Jose. Spock stated he received a message for us to come here. He entered same in his log. That's all the proof I require.
Mendez said: And what do those record tapes show? No message sent from here. No message received by your vessel.
Kirk said: Then I suggest the record tapes have been deliberately changed. A computer expert can change record tapes, duplicate voices, say anything, say nothing.
Mendez said: The fact remains that your first officer's former captain is hospitalised, horribly injured, at this base, and that same first officer seems to be the only one who heard that message.
Kirk said: If he had wanted to see Captain Pike he could have requested a leave. I would have granted it.
Mendez said: Well, that's true of course.
Kirk said: Who would want to divert us here? There's no trouble in the space sector we're patrolling now. No alien problems.
Mendez said: Computer Centre.
Starbase Computer Centre]
Humboldt said: Chief Humboldt here, sir.
Mendez said: Have you rechecked all the record tapes on the date in question?
Humboldt said: Yes, sir.
Mendez said: Is there any way at all a message could have been sent from here without us knowing it?
Humboldt said: Negative, Commodore. We've checked and double-checked everything possible.
Mendez said: All right. Start checking the impossible. Mendez out.
Spock creeps up behind Humboldt and neck-pinches him, then does something to the innards of a computer bank
Scene: Mendez' office.
Mendez said: Oh, have I introduced Miss Piper, Jim? This is Captain Kirk, Miss Piper.
Piper said: I recognized the Captain immediately. A mutual friend described you, sir. Lieutenant Helen Johansson.
Kirk said: Helen described
Piper said: She merely mentioned she knew you, sir.
Mendez said: You have something to report, Miss Piper?
Piper said: Oh, yes, sir. I'm afraid our investigation turned up very little, Commodore. There is, of course, Mister Spock's years of service with Captain Pike. Indications of his extreme loyalty to this former commander.
Kirk said: Miss Piper, a Vulcan can no sooner be disloyal than he can exist without breathing. That goes for his present commander as well as his past.
Piper said: We're forced to consider every possibility, sir. We can be certain Captain Pike cannot have sent a message. In his condition he's under observation every minute of every day.
Mendez said: And totally unable to move, Jim. His wheel chair is constructed to respond to his brain waves. Oh, he can turn it, move it forwards, or backwards slightly.
Piper said: With the flashing light, he can say yes or no.
Mendez said: But that's it, Jim. That's as much as that poor devil can do. His mind is as active as yours and mine, but it's trapped inside a useless vegetating body. He's kept alive mechanically, a battery-driven heart.
Kirk said: There's no way he could even have asked for that message to be sent?
Scene: Starbase Computer Centre.
Voice said: (slow) Starbase Operations. (fast) Starbase Operations. (Spock adjusts it to sound normal) Starbase Operations. Starbase Operations, Enterprise. Standby to receive new orders, Enterprise.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Starbase Operation, Mister Hansen.
Voice said: Starbase Operations to Enterprise. Standby to receive new orders. They're to be fed directly into the ship's computers. This is top secret and scrambled.
Hansen said: Enterprise standing by. Request confirmation.
Uhura said: Enterprise to Starbase. Request confirmation.
Scene: Starbase Computer Centre.
Chief said: Sir, this is a security area. What are you doing here?
Spock said: I have security clearance, Chief.
Chief said: Who gave you clearance? I haven't been notified. You're cross-circuiting the. (struggle) Whose tapes are these?
Uhura said: Repeat, Enterprise to Starbase. Orders received. We need operating confirmation from the ship's Captain. (Spock pinches the Chief unconscious)
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Come in, Starbase. Come in, Captain Kirk.
Scene: Starbase Computer Centre.
Spock inserts data chip
Kirk said: This is Captain Kirk. You have confirmation, Miss Uhura.
Scene: Bridge.
Hansen said: Hansen here, Captain.
Scene: Starbase Computer Centre.
Hansen said: Our destination has been scramble-fed into ship's computers. Er, how can I handle the helm if I don't know where we're going?
Kirk said: (another chip) Mister Spock is with me here. He'll answer all questions. Kirk out.
Spock said: This is Mister Spock.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: The ship's computers will handle the helm on this voyage, Mister Hansen. Course will be computed and set automatically.
Scene: Starbase Computer Centre.
Spock said: You will not discuss this with ship's crew or starbase personnel. Do you read?
Scene: Bridge.
Hansen said: Acknowledged, sir.
Scene: Starbase Computer Centre.
Spock said: Stand by. We'll warp out of orbit in one hour.
Scene: Mendez' office.
Kirk said: (watching Pike on monitor) He keeps blinking no. No to what?
Mccoy said: They've tried questioning him. He's almost agitated himself into a coma.
Kirk said: How long will he live?
Mccoy said: As long as any of us. Blast medicine anyway. We've learned to tie into every human organ in the body except one. The brain. The brain is what life is all about. Now, that man can think any thought that we can, and love, hope, dream as much as we can, but he can't reach out, and no one can reach in.
Kirk said: He keeps blinking no.
Mccoy said: No to what? They could question him for days, weeks, before they stumble on the right thing.
Kirk said: Bones, could this have anything to do with Spock?
Mccoy said: I don't read you at all, Jim.
Kirk said: What I mean is either a message was received. It was one of two things. Either someone sent a message diverting us here, or someone on board the ship lied about receiving it. Could that someone be Mister Spock?
Mccoy said: Jim, forgetting how well we both know Spock, the simple fact that he's a Vulcan means he's incapable of telling a lie.
Kirk said: He's also half human.
Mccoy said: And that half is completely submerged. To be caught acting like us or even thinking like us would completely embarrass him.
Kirk said: Someone's interfering with my command and my ship. I don't know who it is, but I mean to find out. Even you. If I thought you had the technical know-how I'd suspect you, but you don't. Spock does.
Mccoy said: He would not make a false entry.
Kirk said: There's a false entry in the log right now which doesn't jibe with the established facts. How do you explain that.
Mccoy said: I can't, but to question Spock of all people? Me, yes. I could run off half-cocked given a good reason. So could you, but not Spock. It's impossible.
Voice said: Doctor McCoy, report to Transporter Control. Doctor McCoy to Transporter Control.
Mccoy said: McCoy here.
Voice said: You're needed aboard the Enterprise, Doctor. Medical emergency.
Mccoy said: Well, what is it? Sickness? Injury? How bad is it?
Voice said: That's all we have on it, Doctor. Just needed aboard.
Mccoy said: Probably somebody discovered a hangnail. I'll beam up and let you know, Jim.
Kirk said: (reading) For eyes of Starfleet Command only.
Mendez said: Oh, I'm certifying I ordered you to read it. Know anything at all about this planet?
Kirk said: What every ship Captain knows. General Order 7, no vessel under any condition, emergency or otherwise, is to visit Talos Four.
Mendez said: And to do so is the only death penalty left on our books. Only Fleet Command knows why. Not even this file explains that. (unlocks the magnetic strip) But it does name the only Earth ship that ever visited the planet.
Kirk said: The Enterprise, commanded by Captain Christopher Pike.
Mendez said: With a half Vulcan science officer named Spock.
Piper said: Commodore! Captain Pike, he's gone!
Mendez said: Mendez here. What is it?
Voice said: Starship Enterprise, Commodore. It's warping out of orbit. Refuses to acknowledge our signal.
Scene: Bridge.
Hansen said: Out of orbit, Mister Spock. Seems strange with no navigator on duty.
Spock said: The Enterprise knows where she's going, Mister Hansen.
Uhura said: Someone's trying to hail us, sir.
Spock said: Maintain radio silence, Lieutenant. This is First Officer Spock. Per Starfleet orders this date, I have been placed in temporary command of the Enterprise. While our destination is secret, our mission is relatively simple. Starbase Command has assigned Captain Kirk medical rest leave until our return. His instructions are that you will obey my orders as you would his. First Officer out.
Mccoy said: What's going on around here? Who said Jim needed a medical rest leave? And this call about me being needed aboard the ship. I've checked everywhere.
Spock said: And no one from the ship made such a call.
Mccoy said: That's right.
Spock said: Doctor, I regret they elected to keep certain things from you. Will you come with me, please.
Scene: Pike's quarters.
Mccoy said: What is this, Spock? Captain, are you all right? (flash, flash) I see that you're still signaling
Spock said: Doctor, one moment, please.
Kirk said: Kirk to Doctor McCoy. I'm recording you this message, Bones, so there will be no misunderstanding. I'm sorry to have to make it an order. You're not to disturb Captain Pike with any questions. Simply take good care of him. Follow Spock's instructions to the letter. Kirk out. (flash, flash)
Scene: Bridge.
Hansen said: Sir, scanners report an object following us, about the size of a starbase shuttlecraft. Shall we reverse helm?
Spock said: Take no action, Mister Hansen.
Hansen said: But at our speed, they'll never catch us. In case they want to reach us
Spock said: You have your orders, Mister Hansen. We'll make no contact.
Scene: Shuttlecraft.
Mendez said: Starbase Shuttlecraft one to Enterprise. Come in, please. Enterprise, Commodore Mendez and Captain Kirk. If you read me, you are ordered to reply. Repeating it on all emergency frequencies, Jim.
Kirk said: Spock is headed for Talos Four, all right.
Mendez said: Pulling ahead of us fast. Fuel is down to sixty three point three. If we turn back now, we've just got barely enough to get us back to the base.
Kirk said: Shuttlecraft to Enterprise, come in. Shuttlecraft to Enterprise, come in. Enterprise, come in!
Scene: Bridge.
Computer said: Library computer.
Spock said: Lock on to sensors. Measure object now following the Enterprise.
Computer said: Computed. Object is a Class F shuttlecraft. Duranium metal shell, ion engine power
Spock said: Stop. How long before shuttlecraft's fuel supply forces return to starbase?
Computer said: Computed. Shuttlecraft is already past point of safe return.
Scene: Shuttlecraft.
Mendez said: We coast.
Kirk said: Blast you any way. You had no right to come along.
Mendez said: RHIP, Captain. Rank hath its privileges.
Kirk said: Two hours of oxygen left.
Mendez said: Wonderful.
Kirk said: Part of me is hoping the Enterprise won't come back for us. We step on that deck, Spock is finished. Court-martialed, disgraced.
Mendez said: He's dead if he makes it to Talos Four. Why would he want to get Pike there? The command reports stated Talos contained absolutely no practical benefits to mankind.
Kirk said: Spock would have some logical reason for going there.
Mendez said: Maybe. Maybe he's just gone mad.
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: I keep wondering who might be after us in a shuttlecraft and I keep coming up with the same answers, but I can't be right, can l, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Computer control. Lock on to shuttlecraft following us.
Computer said: Locked on. Tractor beam ready.
Spock said: Go to tape Abel Seven Baker. Execute instructions.
Mccoy said: Is it the captain, Mister Spock?
Hansen said: Sir, the engines are reversing. She's brought herself to a dead stop.
Spock said: This is the First Officer speaking. Security, send an armed team to the Bridge. Transporter Room, stand by to beam Captain Kirk aboard. Effective until then, Lieutenant Hansen is in operational command.
Hansen said: Sir?
Spock said: First Officer out. Doctor, as senior officer present, I present myself to you for arrest.
Mccoy said: You what?
Spock said: The charge is mutiny, Doctor. I never received orders to take command.
Security said: Security reporting, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Doctor.
Mccoy said: Mister Spock is, er, under arrest. Is confinement to quarters enough?
Spock said: Adequate, Doctor. I'll make no trouble.
Mccoy said: Well, confine him.
Security said: Yes, sir.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: Store our shuttlecraft on the hangar deck, Mister Scott. Beam us directly aboard.
Scott said: All right, Captain. Locked on to you.
Hansen said: Transferring command to you, sir.
Kirk said: Accepting command. Where's Mister Spock?
Hansen said: In his quarters, under arrest.
Mendez said: His quarters, after what he's done, Lieutenant?
Uhura said: Captain from Bridge. The engines are coming on.
Kirk said: Reverse power. Hold this position. Tell whoever gave those orders to report
Hansen said: Sir, there's nobody up there giving orders. Mister Spock has the computers running the ship.
Kirk said: Disengage computer control, Uhura.
Uhura said: We can't disengage, Captain. The helm does not respond. (Scott leaves, muttering in Gaelic)
Kirk said: Computer control, come in.
Computer said: Computer.
Kirk said: Disengage from helm.
Computer said: Unable to comply.
Scene: Spock's quarters.
Kirk said: This is the Captain. On voice command, you will override all contrary instructions. Voice command, disengage from helm.
Computer said: Unable to comply. Any such attempt will cross-circuit vessel's life-supporting system. Computer control cannot be disengaged until vessel reaches planet Talos Four.
Captain's log, stardate 3012.4. Despite our best efforts to disengage computers, the Enterprise is still locked on a heading for the mysterious planet Talos Four. Meanwhile, as required by Starfleet General Orders, a preliminary hearing on Lieutenant Commander Spock is being convened. And in all the years of my service, this is the most painful moment I've ever faced.
Scene: Hearing room.
Kirk said: This hearing is convened. Mister Spock, you're aware of your right to counsel of your choice?
Spock said: Sir, I waive counsel. Further, I waive rights to this hearing and request immediate court-martial.
Kirk said: Request denied.
Spock said: May I inquire on what grounds, Captain?
Kirk said: A mutiny requires a trial board of no less than three command officers. Since there are only two of that rank available
Spock said: Sir, I must point out that there are three officers of command rank available. Yourself, Commodore Mendez, and Captain Christopher Pike.
Kirk said: Denied. Captain Pike is a complete invalid.
Spock said: I believe you'll find he's still on the active duty list.
Mendez said: We didn't have the heart to retire him, Jim. He's got you. Whatever he's up to, he's planned it well.
Captain's log, stardate 3012.6. General Court-Martial convened. Mister Spock has again waived counsel and has entered a plea of guilty.
Mendez said: Mister Spock, are you aware in pleading guilty that a further charge involving the death penalty must be held against you should this vessel enter the Talos star group?
Spock said: I am.
Mendez said: Why? What does it accomplish to go there or to take Captain Pike there? I want to know why.
Spock said: Are your comments a part of the record, sir?
Mendez said: Yes, it's on the record.
Spock said: Thank you. Request monitor screen be engaged.
Mendez said: For what purpose?
Spock said: To comply with the request you just made, sir, that I explain the importance of going to Talos Four.
Kirk said: By asking why, you've opened the door to any evidence he may wish to present. Apparently what he had in mind.
Mendez said: Present your evidence. Screen on.
Spock said: This is thirteen years ago. The Enterprise and its commander, Captain Christopher Pike.
Spock said: Definitely something out there, Captain, headed this way.
Kirk said: Screen off. Chris, was that really you on the screen? (flash) That's impossible. Mister Spock, no vessel makes record tapes in that detail, that perfect. What were we watching?
Spock said: I cannot tell you at this time, sir.
Mendez said: Captain Pike, were any record tapes of this nature made during your voyage? (flash, flash) The court is not obliged to view evidence without knowing its source.
Spock said: Unless the court asks a prisoner why, Commodore. You did ask that question.
Mendez said: You mean I was maneuvered into asking. Your evidence is out of order.
Kirk said: I am forced to contest that, Commodore. I want to see more.
Mendez said: You have that right, Captain, but just because the prisoner is your First Officer and your personal friend
Kirk said: That has nothing to do with it.
Mendez said: Very well, continue.
Kirk said: Screen on, Mister Scott.
Number One said: No. It's something else. There's still something out there.
Spock said: As I stated, gentlemen, this was thirteen years ago. We were on routine patrol when the ship's sensors detected something ahead. At first we were not certain what it was.
Tyler said: It's coming at the speed of light. Collision course.
Scene: Bridge.
Tyler said: The meteorite beam has not deflected it, Captain.
Number One said: Evasive manoeuvres, sir?
Pike said: Steady as we go.;
Comm Officer said: It's a radio wave, sir. We're passing through an old-style distress signal.
Pike said: They were keyed to cause interference and attract attention this way.
Comm Officer said: A ship in trouble making a forced landing, sir. That's it. No other message.
Tyler said: I have a fix. It comes from the Talos star group.
Number One said: We've no ships or Earth colonies that far out.
Spock said: Their call letters check with a survey expedition. S.S. Columbia disappeared in that region approximately eighteen years ago.
Tyler said: It would take that long for a radio beam to travel from there to here.
Spock said: Records show the Talos group has never been explored. Solar system similar to Earth, eleven planets. Number four seems to be Class M, oxygen atmosphere.
Number One said: Then they could still be alive, even after eighteen years.
Pike said: If they survived the crash.
Spock said: We aren't going to go, to be certain?
Pike said: Not without any indication of survivors, no. Continue to the Vega Colony and take care of our own sick and injured first. You have the helm. Maintain present course.
Number One said: Yes, sir.
Scene: Pike's quarters.
Boyce [Oc} said: Boyce here.
Pike said: Drop by my cabin, Doctor. (Boyce enters with bag) What's that? I didn't say there's anything wrong with me.
Boyce said: I understand we picked up a distress signal.
Pike said: That's right. Unless we get anything more positive on it, it seems to me the condition of our own crew takes precedent. I'd like to log the ship's doctor's opinion, too.
Boyce said: Oh, I concur with yours, definitely.
Pike said: Good. I'm glad you do, because we're going to stop first at the Vega Colony and replace anybody who needs hospitalisation and also. What the devil are you putting in there, ice?
Boyce said: Who wants a warm martini?
Pike said: What makes you think I need one?
Boyce said: Sometimes a man will tell his bartender things he'll never tell his doctor. What's been on your mind, Chris, the fight on Rigel seven?
Pike said: Shouldn't it be? My only yeoman and two others dead, seven injured.
Boyce said: Was there anything you personally could have done to prevent it?
Pike said: Oh, I should have smelled trouble when I saw the swords and the armour. Instead of that, I let myself get trapped in that deserted fortress and attacked by one of their warriors.
Boyce said: Chris, you set standards for yourself no one could meet. You treat everyone on board like a human being except yourself, and now you're tired and you
Pike said: You bet I'm tired. You bet. I'm tired of being responsible for two hundred and three lives. I'm tired of deciding which mission is too risky and which isn't, and who's going on the landing party and who doesn't, and who lives and who dies. Boy, I've had it, Phil.
Boyce said: To the point of finally taking my advice, a rest leave?
Pike said: To the point of considering resigning.
Boyce said: And do what?
Pike said: Well, for one thing, go home. Nice little town with fifty miles of park land around it. Remember I told you I had two horses, and we used to take some food and ride out all day.
Boyce said: Ah, that sounds exciting. Ride out with a picnic lunch every day.
Pike said: I said that's one place I might go. I might go into business on Regulus or on the Orion colony.
Boyce said: You, an Orion trader, dealing in green animal women, slaves?
Pike said: The point is this isn't the only life available. There's a whole galaxy of things to choose from.
Boyce said: Not for you. A man either lives life as it happens to him, meets it head-on, and licks it, or he turns his back on it and starts to wither away.
Pike said: Now you're beginning to talk like a doctor, bartender.
Boyce said: Take your choice. We both get the same two kinds of customers. The living and the dying.
Spock said: Mister Spock here. We're intercepting a follow-up message, sir. There are crash survivors on Talos.
Scene: Bridge.
Officer said: (reads) Eleven survivors from crash. Gravity and oxygen within limits. Food and water obtainable, but unless. The message faded at that point, sir.
Pike said: Address intercraft.
Tyler said: System open.
Pike said: This is the captain. Our destination is the Talos star group.
Scene: Hearing room.
Pike said: Our time warp, factor seven.
Tyler said: Course computed and on the screen.
Number One said: All decks have acknowledged, sir.
Pike said: Engage.
Mendez said: Screen off. Mister Spock, I'm truly amazed at your technical prowess in somehow manufacturing all this. I congratulate you on your imagination. But this is a court of space law, not a theatre.
Spock said: Captain, please tell the court this is not imagination, nor some clever photographic record. Are we seeing the actual events of thirteen years ago? (flash) Yes, gentlemen. On that screen as it happened, the incredible experience of Captain Christopher Pike on Talos Four. If, after witnessing this, the court wishes to turn this vessel back, I will release this ship to manual control.
Mendez said: You're in no position to bargain. This is ridiculous. This man mutinied, stole your ship, abducted Captain Pike. Well, for me this has gone far enough.
Kirk said: We still haven't heard the full story. I vote to continue.
Mendez said: And I vote we do not. Deadlock, and since I'm
Kirk said: Not a deadlock. There's still one member of the trial board to be heard from.
Mendez said: Very well. Captain Pike, it's up to you. Do we continue under these conditions? (flash)
Kirk said: Yes.
Captain's log supplemental. Mister Spock, on trial for mutiny, has forced the court to accept unusual evidence. On our monitor screen, the voyage of Captain Pike and the Enterprise to the one forbidden world in all the galaxy.
Mendez said: Screen on.
Scene: Bridge.
Tyler said: We've settled into orbit, sir.
Geologist said: Geological lab report complete, Captain.
Spock said: Preliminary lab survey ready, sir.
Pike said: Spectography?
Geologist said: Our reading shows an oxygen nitrogen atmosphere, sir, heavy with inert elements but well within safety limits.
Pike said: Gravity?
Geologist said: Zero point nine of Earth.
Tyler said: Captain? Reflections, sir, from the planet's surface. As I read it, they polarise out as rounded metal bits. Could be parts of a spaceship hull.
Pike said: Prep a landing party of six. You feel up to it?
Spock said: Yes, sir.
Tyler said: Yes, sir.
Pike said: Sorry, Number One. With little information on this planet, we'll have to leave the ship's most experienced officer here covering us.
Number One said: Of course, sir.
Scene: Transporter room.
Pike said: There's no indication of problems down there, but let's not take chances.
Pitcairn said: Yes, sir. There's a canyon to the left. We can set you there completely unobserved.
Pike said: Right.
Scene: Planet surface.
the group explores until they find a rough settlement
Crewman said: Sir.
Old Man said: They're men. They're humans.
Pike said: Captain Christopher Pike, United Space Ship Enterprise.
Haskins said: Doctor Theodore Haskins, American Continent lnstitute.
Survivor said: Is Earth all right?
Pike said: The same old Earth, and you'll see it very soon.
Tyler said: And you won't believe how fast you can get back. Well the time barrier's been broken. Our new ships can
Haskins said: This is Vina. Her parents are dead. She was born almost as we crashed.
The reunion is being watched on another screen, by people with big bald heads
Pike said: (as the survivors pack up the settlement) Enterprise.
Number One said: Landing party, come in.
Pike said: We'll begin transporting the survivors and their effects up to you very shortly.
Number One said: Quarters are being prepared, sir. Have I permission to send out scouting and scientific parties now?
Pike said: Yes, affirmative on the
Vina said: You appear to be healthy and intelligent, Captain. A prime specimen.
Number One said: I didn't get that last message, Captain.
Pike said: Er, affirmative on request. Landing party out.
Haskins said: You must forgive her choice of words, Captain. She's lived her whole life with a collection of aging scientists.
Boyce said: If they can, er, spare you a moment, I'd like to make my medical report.
Vina said: I think it's time to show the Captain our secret.
Boyce said: Their health is excellent, almost too good.
Haskins said: There's a reason for our condition, but we've had some doubt if Earth is ready to learn the secret. Let the girl show you. We'll accept your judgment.
Pike follows Vina up a slope to a ledge by a rock face
Vina said: You're tired, but don't worry. You'll feel much better soon. Don't you see it? Here and here.
Pike said: I, I don't understand.
Vina said: You will. You're a perfect choice.
she vanishes, and so do all the survivors and their encampment. A door opens in the rock face, Pike is knocked out and taken inside. At the settlement -;
Tyler said: Captain! (everyone rushes over in time to see the door closing in the rock. They fire their phasers at it to no avail.
Scene: Hearing room.
Spock said: Spock here.
Number One said: Landing party, come in.
Spock said: There is no survivors' encampment, Number One. This is all some sort of trap. We've lost the Captain. Do you read?
Kirk said: What is it?
Uhura said: It's for Commodore Mendez.
Kirk said: Plead signal for you, sir. Go ahead, Uhura.
Uhura said: Commodore Mendez, urgent. Subspace monitors show Enterprise receiving transmissions from planet Talos Four in violation of Starfleet General Orders.
Kirk said: Receiving transmissions from Talos Four? Then the images we've been seeing are
Spock said: Are coming from Talos Four, sir.
Uhura said: Captain Kirk is here by relieved. You are ordered to assume command of the Enterprise. Disable vessel if necessary to prevent further contact. Message signed ComSol, Starfleet Command.
Mendez said: Mister Spock, you're aware of the orders regarding any contact with Talos Four. You have deliberately invited the death penalty. You've not only finished yourself, Spock, but you've finished your Captain as well.
Spock said: The Commodore must be aware that Captain Kirk knew nothing of this.
Mendez said: And you're aware a Captain is responsible for everything that occurs on his ship. I order you to return this vessel back to manual control.
Spock said: Sir, I respectfully decline.
Mendez said: Very well. You've earned the consequences. This court is in recess.
Mendez and yeoman leave, Scott and McCoy wheel Pike out after him
Kirk said: Do you know what you're doing? Have you lost your mind?
Spock said: Captain, Jim, please don't stop me. Don't let him stop me. It's your career and Captain Pike's life. You must see the rest of the transmission.
Kirk said: Lock him up.
To be concluded next week...