Dagger Of The Mind
Stardate:
2715.1
Original Airdate: 3 Nov, 1966
Scene: Transporter room.
Berkeley said: Ready to beam down. Energise. Energise.
Kirk said: Having trouble, gentlemen?
Berkeley said: I just don't understand the problem, sir.
Kirk said: You're beaming cargo down to a penal colony, Mister Berkeley.
Berkeley said: Their security force field, sir.
Kirk said: U.S.S. Enterprise to Tantalus colony.
Woman said: Rehab colony. Come in.
Kirk said: Request opening in your force field for beaming down of cargo.
Woman said: Enterprise, affirmative. Our security cover is now open.
Kirk said: Energise. Any incoming cargo?
Berkeley said: Just one item, sir. Some research material bound for the Central Bureau of Penology at Stockholm.
Woman said: Tantalus cargo ready to beam up.
Kirk said: Oh, Mister Berkeley, you might refamiliarise yourself with the manual on penal colony procedures.
Berkeley said: Immediately, sir.
Kirk said: I think you can take the time to lock this up first.
Berkeley said: I'll get a vault assignment. (leaves. The box opens, a man climbs out and attacks the technician)
Captain's log, stardate 2715.1. Exchanged cargo with penal colony on Tantalus V. I've departed without going ashore.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: I would like to have met Doctor Adams. Have you ever been to a penal colony since they started following his theories?
Mccoy said: A cage is a cage, Jim.
Kirk said: You're behind the times, Bones. They're more like resort colonies now.
Uhura said: Message, Captain. Switching to speaker.
Woman said: Tantalus colony to Enterprise. We are unable to locate one of our inmates. This is a potentially violent case. Possibly hidden in the box we beamed up to you. Repeat, unable to locate one of our inmates. This is a potentially violent case.
Kirk said: Enterprise acknowledging. Stand by. Security alert three.
Uhura said: Security alert, condition three. All sections go to alert condition three. We may have an intruder aboard.
Scene: Corridor.
Uhura said: Repeat, all sections to alert condition three. Intruder aboard.
Security said: (to intruder who has swapped overall with technician) Hey, you from Engineering! (runs) Bridge. Section C, deck fourteen.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Captain, section C deck fourteen, reporting trouble. Someone in Engineering uniform.
Kirk said: Security control, this is the Bridge. Come in.
Spock said: I have them, Captain. Closing off deck fourteen, search in progress.
Scene: Corridor.
Uhura said: Security alert, condition three. (intruder jumps one of the security men) Approximately six foot four male, early forties. Approach with caution. This man's extremely dangerous.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Repeat, approach with extreme caution. Bridge out.
Spock said: Negative in the deck area, Captain. He may have gotten out. Expanding search to adjoining sections.
Kirk said: Enterprise to Tantalus colony.
Adams said: Tantalus colony. Adams here.
Kirk said: Doctor Adams? This is Captain Kirk. It appears we may have an inmate of yours aboard the ship.
Uhura said: Transporter crewman found unconscious, Captain. Cargo case open and empty.
Kirk said: Make that definite, Doctor. He's aboard.
Adams said: Terribly sorry, Captain. I take all the blame. Let me repeat, he's clever as well as extremely violent. Take all possible precautions.
Kirk said: We'll keep you posted, Doctor. Kirk out.
Spock said: Interesting. Your Earth people glorify organised violence for forty centuries, but you imprison those who employ it privately.
Mccoy said: And, of course, your people found an answer.
Spock said: We disposed of emotion, Doctor. Where there is no emotion there is no motive for violence.;
Gelder said: Where's the captain? Which one of you is the captain?
Kirk said: I'm Captain Kirk.
Gelder said: My name is Van Gelder. I want asylum.
Kirk said: At gunpoint?
Gelder said: I want your promise first, your word that you won't take me back there, to Tantalus.
Kirk said: No promises. Give me the weapon.
Gelder said: No! No. No, I'm not going back! I'll disable your vessel first. You choose, Captain. I'll destroy your control panel.
Gelder is distracted and Spock neck-pinches him
Kirk said: Take him to Sickbay. Reverse course. Head back for Tantalus colony.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: Abnormal, of course, but it's not schizophrenia, tissue damage, or any condition I'm acquainted with, Jim. And you know after getting him here, it took almost a triple dose of sedative to put him under.
Kirk said: Your report said he was quite talkative.
Mccoy said: But not very informative. He claimed one thing, then he seemed to forget, and then he'd start to claim something else, but always with just the ring of truth in it. I'd sure like to study this one, Jim.
Kirk said: Not our problem, Bones.
Gelder said: You smart, button-pushing brass hat. Wash your hands of it. Is that your system? You're both quite sure of yourselves, aren't you? Quite expert. Take him back. Let someone else worry about him.
Kirk said: What did you say your name was?
Gelder said: My name? My name is Simon Van Gelder. (in great pain) I was the director of, director at the Tantalus colony.
Mccoy said: You see what I mean?
Gelder said: I was a graduate of, of. I was assistant to Doctor. I knew. I knew, but they've erased it.
Mccoy said: Erased?
Gelder said: Edited, adjusted, subverted me, but I won't forget! I won't forget! You, you're so blind ignorant. You believe I belong back there, don't you? Dead or alive. Well, I won't let you take me back. I'm not going! I'll die first! Do you hear? I'm not going! No! No! No.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Estimated arrival at Tantalus?
Spock said: Fifty seven minutes, thirty seconds, Captain.
Kirk said: What's so fascinating?
Spock said: An identification tape from our ship's library on Doctor Simon Van Gelder.
Kirk said: Doctor Van Gelder?
Spock said: Doctor Van Gelder, Captain. No mistake. There's a full ID tape on him.
Kirk said: Committed to Tantalus colony when?
Spock said: Assigned there six months ago as Doctor Adams' associate.
Kirk said: Ship to surface, Tantalus colony.
Uhura said: Hailing frequency's open, sir.
Kirk said: U.S.S. Enterprise to Tantalus colony.
Woman said: Tantalus.
Kirk said: This is Captain Kirk. I'd like to speak to Doctor Adams.
Woman said: Stand by, Enterprise.
Adams said: Captain Kirk, Doctor Adams here.
Kirk said: Doctor Adams, regarding your escaped man
Adams said: Is Doctor Van Gelder all right? And your people, no injuries?
Kirk said: No casualties, sir. This man is Doctor Simon Van Gelder?
Adams said: Yes, of course. You're certain he's all right? We've been very concerned. In the violent state he's in
Kirk said: No harm to him, sir. We thought you might enlighten us as to his condition.
Adams said: He'd been doing some experimental work, Captain, an experimental beam we'd hoped might rehabilitate incorrigibles. Van Gelder felt he hadn't the moral right to expose another man to something he hadn't tried on his own person.
Kirk said: Tragedy, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Jim, that doesn't quite ring true.
Kirk said: Er, Doctor Adams, please stand by. Explain.
Mccoy said: I don't believe him. I can't explain it, but the more I study that patient
Kirk said: You don't believe him, and you can't explain it. Bones, are you aware that in the last twenty years Doctor Adams has done more to revolutionise, to humanise prisons and the treatment of prisoners than all the rest of humanity had done in forty centuries? I've been to those penal colonies since they've begun following his methods, and they're not cages anymore.
Mccoy said: Jim
Kirk said: They're clean, decent hospitals for sick minds.
Mccoy said: Jim, listen!
Spock said: Gentlemen, I suggest you ask Doctor Adams if he wants Van Gelder returned.
Kirk said: Doctor Adams, regarding Van Gelder.
Adams said: Yes, Captain. May I inquire about your patrol destinations? Are you passing near any hospital facilities superior to ours? I'd like Van Gelder to have the best possible treatment, of course.
Kirk said: Thank you, Doctor. I'll take it up with the ship's surgeon. Stand by. Well, Bones, you've got the ball. You care to recommend a better place?
Mccoy said: There are no superior facilities, he knows that. But that's not the question. If something unusual is going on down there
Kirk said: An assumption, Doctor.
Mccoy said: I'm required to enter any reasonable doubts into my medical log. That requires you to answer in your log. Sorry, Jim.
Kirk said: Doctor Adams, this is rather embarrassing. By strict interpretation of our starship regulation, I'm required to initiate an investigation of this so that a proper report
Adams said: No need to apologise, Captain Kirk. In fact, I'd take it as a personal favour if you'd beam down and look into it yourself. I'm sure you realise we don't get too many visitors here. Oh, I, er, Captain, I would appreciate it if you could come down with a minimum staff. We're forced to limit outside contact as much as possible.
Kirk said: Affirmative, Doctor. I've visited rehab colonies before. Enterprise out. Find me someone in your department with psychiatric and penology experience, if possible.
Mccoy said: Yes, sir.
Captain's log, stardate 2715.2. Standard orbit, planet Tantalus V.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Mission, routine investigation and report as per ship surgeon's medical log. As for my last entry, it seems I will get to meet Doctor Adams at last. However, I would have preferred other circumstances. Sickbay. Report, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Van Gelder's still violently agitated, Captain.
Kirk said: And you'd prefer to keep him here until I complete my investigation anyway.
Spock said: I believe we should, Jim.
Mccoy said: Oh, I'm assigning your technical aide, Captain. One of our psychiatrists does have a background in rehabilitative therapy. Doctor Noel, standing by in the transporter room now.
Kirk said: Thank you, Doctor. Bridge out. Mister Spock.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: Co-ordinates?
Berkeley said: Locked in, sir. Ready to beam down.
Noel said: Doctor Helen Noel, Captain. We've met. Don't you remember the science lab Christmas party?
Kirk said: Yes, I remember.
Noel said: You dropped in
Kirk said: Yes, yes, I remember.
Spock said: Problem, Captain?
Kirk said: Mister Spock, you tell McCoy that she had better check out as the best assistant I ever had. Energise.
Berkeley said: Energise.
Scene: Building entrance.
Kirk said: In here, I presume, Doctor.
Noel said: Perhaps it would be simpler if you called me Helen, Captain, since
Kirk said: This is another time, another place, and another situation.
Noel said: Of course, Captain.
Scene: Turbolift.
Kirk said: Elevator, and going down quite a ways.
Noel said: (in his arms) I wouldn't recommend it for weak hearts.
Scene: Adam's study.
Adams said: Hello Captain Kirk, and er
Kirk said: Doctor Helen Noel. It's a pleasure to finally meet you, sir.
Adams said: Thank you. Thank you, Captain. Welcome to Devil's Island, Doctor.
Noel said: Perhaps you'll call me Helen, Doctor. With so many titles around, we're not going to be sure who's talking to who.
Adams said: I shall indeed. Won't you?
Noel said: Thank you.
Kirk said: I believe regulations call for me to check my weapon.
Adams said: No, no. That won't be necessary in your case, Captain. Just keep it out of sight, hmm? I know you people feel as naked without a weapon as we do without a medikit. A small toast. Do you mind? It's such a great day for us here on Tantalus when we have visitors, no matter what the excuse.
Kirk said: Doctor.
Adams said: Oh, now, Captain, you made your apology from upstairs. Now forget it. I don't think you'll be able to get through the security screen, Captain. Just a second, hmm? There. Now try it.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise. Come in.
Spock said: Enterprise. Spock here.
Kirk said: Your landing co-ordinates were right on the nose, Mister Spock. We arrived safely, and we're here with Doctor Adams right now. Kirk out.
Spock said: Affirmative, Captain. Enterprise out.
Adams said: Ah, Lethe, come in. Lethe, this is Captain Kirk and Doctor Helen Noel. Lethe came to us for rehabilitation and stayed on as a therapist, and a very good one too, I might add.
Lethe said: I love my work.
Adams said: Go right ahead, Captain.
Kirk said: Before you came here
Lethe said: I was another person, malignant, hateful.
Kirk said: May I ask what crime you committed?
Lethe said: Does it matter? That person no longer exists.
Adams said: Um, part of our cure, if you will, Captain, is to bury the past. Why should a person go on living with unbearable memories if there's no necess. Oh, I feel quite sure that you'd concur with me in that, Doctor. Helen.
Noel said: A shifting of memory patterns is basic to psychotherapy.
Adams said: Yes. And now to the toast, hmm? You'll forgive us, Lethe. There you are, Captain. To all mankind. May we never find space so vast, planets so cold, heart and mind so empty that, that we cannot fill them with love and warmth.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: Quite a tour, Doctor. Very impressive.
Adams said: Thank you. Hi, Carl.
Scene: Treatment room.
Kirk said: Doctor.
Adams said: Yes?
Kirk said: Hmm?
Adams said: Ah. I was afraid you would ask about this, Captain. One doesn't like to talk about their personal failures, you know? It was just an experiment that went wrong, I'm afraid.
Kirk said: May I see it?
Noel said: Captain, if something hasn't worked out and therefore has no scientific fact
Kirk said: Shall we leave it up to the doctor?
Noel said: Since you brought me down here for advice, Captain
Kirk said: One of the advantages of being a Captain, Doctor, is being able to ask for advice without necessarily having to take it.
Adams said: I think I'll have to award that round to the Captain, Helen. You're fighting over your weight. All right, let's take a look.
Scene: Sickbay.
Gelder said: I'm not a criminal! I do not require neural neutraliser.
Spock said: Neural neutraliser. Can you explain that, Doctor Van Gelder?
Gelder said: A room. A device. Door. Control panel. I see it. A device. A light! The light!
Spock said: This room. What happens there?
Gelder said: (screams)
Scene: Treatment room.
Adams said: A neural neutraliser. Experimental. Actually, we don't expect to get much use out of it at all. That beam from above neutralises brain waves, relaxes the patient's mind. Does them no harm, of course, and the effects are only temporary.
Kirk said: One question, Doctor. If it doesn't do any good
Adams said: Why do we go on using it, hmm, Captain? Hope. Yes, yes, there's always that slight chance that it might do some good in the more violent cases.
Noel said: Tranquillisers are fine, Captain, but to continually pump chemicals into a person's bloodstream
Adams said: Exactly my point, Helen. Yes. Shall we? (he and Noel leave)
Kirk said: (to therapist) How does it work?
Therapist said: Quite simple. Off on switches, and the large control here changes the strength of the brain neutralising beam.
Adams said: Captain, you remind me of the ancient sceptic who demanded of the wise old sage to be taught all the world's wisdom while standing on one foot.
Noel said: Beam neutralising has been experimented with on Earth, Captain. I'm not acquainted with this particular style of equipment, but I can assure you that Doctor Adams has not created a chamber of horrors here.
Kirk said: I didn't mean to suggest that he had. The reason I asked, sir, was you haven't mentioned where Doctor Van Gelder's injury occurred.
Adams said: Right here, Captain. Yes, Simon was a very stubborn man. He could've sat in that room for years with the beam at that volume or even higher. Or if he simply had someone standing by to snap it off in case he got into trouble, but, but no. He tried it alone and on full volume. It's a pity.
Kirk said: (to therapist) Thank you. (leaves)
Therapist said: (to man in treatment chair) You will forget all you have heard. To remember any portion of it, any word, will cause you pain, terrible pain, growing more terrible as you fight to remember.
Scene: Sickbay.
Spock said: Can you give us your present location, Captain?
Kirk said: In Doctor Adams' study, Mister Spock. Why?
Spock said: Then you're with Doctor Adams now.
Kirk said: Affirmative.
Spock said: Captain, Van Gelder has made reference to a particular treatment room. The term was neural neutraliser.
Scene: Adam's study.
Kirk said: Yes. He was injured there. I've seen the room. Doctor Adams explained
Scene: Sickbay.
Kirk said: the mistake Van Gelder made.
Scene: Adam's study.
Kirk said: Go ahead, Mister Spock. Anything further?
Adams said: Your Mister Spock sounds like a very excellent second in command, Captain Kirk. Please tell him to go ahead and speak freely. I have to check in with a member of my staff anyway.
Kirk said: Thank you, Doctor Adams.
Adams said: Excuse me.
Kirk said: Stand by, Mister Spock. Doctor Adams has left with some things to attend to. What is it, Mister Spock?
Scene: Sickbay.
Spock said: Van Gelder is extremely agitated, Captain, and warns that you are in danger.
Scene: Adam's study.
Noel said: Oh, that's foolish.
Spock said: Please repeat, Captain. I didn't receive that.
Kirk said: Tell McCoy the technical expert he sent along with me insists that any concern is unjustified. According to Adams, Van Gelder created his own problem.
Noel said: He's suffering from
Scene: Sickbay.
Noel said: neuro-synapse damage, as if his brain were short-circuited. It's no wonder he's having delusions.
Mccoy said: McCoy here. Received and understood.
Scene: Adam's study.
Mccoy said: But we still have some doubts up here, Captain. Can you tell us any more?
Kirk said: Not really.
Spock said: When do you plan to beam back up, Captain?
Kirk said: I think we'll spend the night here, Mister Spock.
Scene: Sickbay.
Gelder said: No! No, no, no.
Spock said: And you will continue to check in every four hours?
Kirk said: Affirmative.
Scene: Adam's study.
Kirk said: Kirk out.
Scene: Sickbay.
Gelder said: No! No. No, don't let them! You must warn your captain. No! No! Don't let him stay! Don't let him stay! Don't! No. No. Don't hypo me. Please, don't hypo me. I'll try not to fight. I'll try. But you must listen. Warn your Captain. Doctor Adams. Doc, Doctor Adams will destroy.
Spock said: Destroy how? What?
Gelder said: Right death.
Spock said: Enterprise log. First officer Spock, acting captain. I must now use an ancient Vulcan technique to probe into Van Gelder's tortured mind.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: Spock, if there's the slightest possibility it might help.
Spock said: I've never used it on a human, Doctor.
Mccoy said: If there's any way we can look into this man's mind to see if what he's seeing is real or delusion
Spock said: It's a hidden, personal thing to the Vulcan people, part of our private lives.
Mccoy said: Now look, Spock, Jim Kirk could be in real trouble. Will it work or not?
Spock said: It could be dangerous. Do you understand? It requires I make pressure changes in your nerves, your blood vessels.
Gelder said: You must open my mind. Let me warn you and explain to you.
Spock said: This will not affect you, Doctor McCoy, only the person I touch. It is not hypnosis.
Mccoy said: I understand. (Spock puts his hands on Gelder's face) Good, the reading's levelling.
Spock said: You begin to feel a strange euphoria. Your body floats.
Gelder said: Yes, I begin to feel it.
Spock said: Open your mind. We move together. Our minds sharing the same thoughts.
Scene: Noel's room.
Kirk said: Good evening.
Noel said: Good evening.
Kirk said: What did you think of the inmates we saw here this afternoon?
Noel said: You could've waited until tomorrow morning to ask me that, Captain.
Kirk said: I didn't.
Noel said: I thought they were happy, well-adjusted.
Kirk said: But a bit blank.
Noel said: Captain, if you're questioning the methods of a man like Tristan Adams
Kirk said: I'd like to see that treatment room again. You say you're somewhat familiar with the theory behind it?
Noel said: Yes, somewhat, but if you'd simply state any doubts you have to Doctor Adams
Kirk said: And if he's lying, he'll continue to lie, and I won't find out a thing. The only way I can be sure is to see that machine at work, or is that too impractical and unscientific of me, Doctor? Well?
Noel said: Coming.
Scene: Sickbay.
Spock said: What is our name? Who are we?
Gelder said: We are Simon Van Gelder.
Spock said: Doctor Adams. The neural neutraliser. What did he do to us?
Gelder said: He can reshape any mind he chooses. He used it to erase our memories, put his own thoughts there. He was surprised it took so much power. We fought him, remember? But we grew so tired, our minds so blank, so open, that any thought he placed there became our thoughts. Our minds so empty like a sponge, needing thoughts, begging. Empty. Loneliness. So lonely to be sitting there empty, wanting any word from him. Love.
Spock said: Yes.
Gelder said: Hate.
Spock said: Yes.
Gelder said: Live.
Spock said: Yes.
Gelder said: Die.
Spock said: Yes.
Gelder said: Such agony to be empty.
Spock said: Empty.
Gelder said: Lonely.
Spock said: Lonely.
Gelder said: So empty.
Spock said: Empty.
Gelder said: So empty.
Scene: Treatment room.
Kirk said: I have no desire to damage my brain. Can this be handled with reasonable safety? Yes or no?
Noel said: Yes.
Kirk said: And will you be able to determine if that beam is harming me in the slightest?
Noel said: Yes, Captain. I know my profession. (Kirk sits in treatment chair) Ready?
Kirk said: Mm-hmm.
Noel said: We'll try minimum intensity, a second or two. (light turns)
Kirk said: Anytime you're ready, Doctor, just for a second or two.
Noel said: We already tried it for that long, Captain.
Kirk said: Nothing happened.
Noel said: Something happened. Your face went completely blank.
Kirk said: Try a harmless suggestion.
Noel said: (light turns) You're hungry.
Kirk said: You know, when we finally get through this I'd like to locate and raid a kitchen somewhere.
Noel said: I put that suggestion in your mind, Captain. I said simply that you were hungry.
Kirk said: Remarkably effective for a device that Doctor Adams was going to abandon.
Noel said: I think we should try this again.
Kirk said: Yes. Pick something unusual, an unusual suggestion, something we can both be sure of.
Noel said: (light turns) At the Christmas party, we met, we danced, you talked about the stars. I suggest now that it happened in a different way. You swept me off my feet and carried me to your cabin.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Kirk said: Merry Christmas.
Noel said: Captain, if your crew saw you carry me here.
Kirk said: My crew is sworn to secrecy.
Noel said: But my reputation. I mean, just having met like this. Of course, it would be different if you cared for me.
Kirk said: You want me to manufacture a lie, wrap it up as a Christmas present for you?
Noel said: No, I prefer honesty. (they kiss)
Scene: Treatment room.
Adams said: Now Captain Kirk is going to have a complete demonstration. I want there to be no doubts whatsoever in his mind. Mmm. You're madly in love with Helen, Captain. You'd lie, cheat, steal for her, sacrifice your career, your reputation.
Noel said: No, Doctor! No!
Adams said: The pain. Do you feel it, Captain? You must have her, or the pain grows worse, the pain, the longing for her.
Kirk said: Helen.
Noel said: No.
Adams said: For years, you've loved her, Captain, for years.
Kirk said: For years, I've loved you.
Adams said: You must continue to remember that, Captain. And now, she's gone. (machine to maximum)
Kirk said: Helen! Helen, don't go! I need you, Helen!
Adams said: (reduces intensity) Now Captain, you must take your phaser weapon and drop it on the floor. Captain, the pain increases unless you obey me.
Kirk said: I must drop it.
Adams said: Very good, Captain. Very good indeed. And now your communicator. Drop it on the floor.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise. Argh! (machine to maximum) Kirk to Enterprise. Argh!
Noel said: No!
Scene: Kirk's room.
Noel said: They've taken you from the room, Captain. You're in your own quarters now.
Kirk said: Helen. Helen, for years I've loved you. Helen.
Noel said: Try to remember.
Kirk said: I've loved you.
Noel said: He placed all that in your mind.
Kirk said: For years.
Noel said: Remember. Doctor Adams took the controls away from me. Do you remember the pain and then his voice? Remember?
Kirk said: Yes. Yes, I remember. I remember. Helen. Look. The duct. The duct. Give me a hand here. Pull. (cover comes open) Air conditioning. It has to connect with other ducts and tunnels. You can get through this. It might lead to the power supply. Short-circuited, it would cut off the security force field. Have you had any training in hyper-power circuits?
Noel said: No.
Kirk said: Megavoltage. Touch the wrong line, and you're dead.
Noel said: Anything's better than Adams' treatment room. (he closes the cover behind her and the door opens) Time for another treatment?
Scene: Treatment room.
Adams said: Please don't fight me, Captain. The pain only gets worse when you doubt me. You believe in me completely.
Kirk said: I believe in you.
Adams said: You trust me completely.
Kirk said: I trust you.
Adams said: Excellent, Captain. I compliment you. Do you know Doctor Van Gelder was down on his hands and knees sobbing at this point? It was so gratifying. I'm so fortunate to have had a couple of excellent specimens to, to work with. I've learned a great deal.
Lethe said: The woman doctor. She's gone, Doctor Adams.
Adams said: Notify security at once, Lethe. Where is she, Captain?
Kirk said: I, argh, I don't know.
Adams said: Where is Helen And with what instructions?
Kirk said: I don't know. (collapses)
Noel makes it to the power control room and finds an off switch but it won't move
Scene: Transporter room.
Spock said: Emergency channel D.
Berkeley said: It's no good, Mister Spock. I can't break through their force field.
Spock said: Keep trying.
Noel hides as guards search for her, and when they go she pulls down the master high voltage switch. A guard grabs her
Scene: Treatment room.
Adams said: Put him back in the chair, Eli, and find that girl. (Kirk knocks them both out and leaves)
the guard turns the power back on again, but when he reaches for Noel she pushes him against the high volt grid and he fries, cutting the power again
Scene: Transporter room.
Berkeley said: Mister Spock, the force field is gone. I can send you right to the source of the interruption.
Spock said: (to McCoy) Get some security people and follow me down. Energise.
Scene: Power control room.
Noel dashes back into the aircon tunnels
Spock said: (pushes a load of buttons) Enterprise, this is Spock. Force field has been eliminated. (turns main power back on again)
Scene: Kirk's room.
Noel said: Captain. Captain?
Kirk said: (helps her out of vent) Helen, are you all right? (kisses her)
Noel said: Yes. This isn't right, Captain. (Spock enters) Doctor Adams did this to you.
Kirk said: Doctor Adams? Doctor A. The treatment room. Follow me.
Scene: Treatment room.
Mccoy said: Jim! (Kirk turns machine off)
Kirk said: The power came on.
Mccoy said: He's dead, Captain.
Noel said: The machine wasn't on high enough to kill.
Kirk said: But he was alone. Can you imagine the mind emptied by that thing? Without even a tormentor for company.
Noel said: I understand.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Oh, Captain, there was a message from Tantalus colony, sir.
Spock said: It was from Van Gelder. He thought you'd like to know the treatment room had been dismantled and the equipment destroyed.
Kirk said: Thank you.
Mccoy said: It's hard to believe that a man could die of loneliness.
Kirk said: Not when you've sat in that room. Take us out of orbit, Mister Spock. Ahead warp factor one.
Spock said: Acknowledged, Captain. Warp factor one.