The Conscience of the King
Stardate: 2817.6
Original Airdate: 8 Dec, 1966
Scene: Theatre.
On stage, a velvet-clad arm raises a bloody knife, then plunges it again into his sleeping victim. The audience are rapt.
Kirk said: Interesting. An Arcturian Macbeth.
Leighton said: (a man with an eyepatch) Watch him. Watch Macbeth.
Lenore said: (as Lady M) Is he dead? Speak. Is King Duncan dead?
Karidian said: Will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood clean from my hands.
Leighton said: That voice. He's back. That man on the stage. I'm certain of it. That's Kodos the Executioner.
Karidian said: Pluck out mine eyes!
Captain's log, star date 2817.6. Starship Enterprise diverted from scheduled course. Purpose, to confirm discover by Doctor Thomas Leighton of an extraordinary new synthetic food which would totally end the threat of famine on Cygnia Minor, a nearby Earth colony.
Scene: Leighton's home.
Kirk said: You mean to tell me you've called me three light years off my course just to accuse an actor of being Kodos?
Leighton said: He is Kodos. I'm sure of it.
Kirk said: You said you discovered a new food concentrate. What am I supposed to put in my log, that you lied? That you diverted a starship with false information? You're not only in trouble, you've put me in trouble, too.
Leighton said: I did it to trap Kodos!
Kirk said: Kodos is dead.
Leighton said: Is he? Is anyone sure? A body burned beyond recognition?
Kirk said: Tom, the authorities closed the book on that case years ago.
Leighton said: Then let's reopen it. Jim, four thousand people were butchered.
Kirk said: Martha, you tell him.
Martha said: I can't tell him anything, Jim. He's been like this since the company of actors arrived.
Kirk said: Kodos is dead. I'm satisfied of that.
Leighton said: Well, I'm not. I remember him. That voice. The bloody thing he did.
He turns his head to reveal it's not just an eyepatch, but a covering over half his face
Leighton said: Jim, Jim, I need your help. There were only eight or nine of us who actually saw Kodos. I was one, you were another. If he's to be exposed,
Kirk said: He's dead.
Leighton said: Then it will be a ghost Martha and I receive in our home tonight. I invited the entire company to a cocktail party. I have to be sure.
Kirk said: And I have to get back to my ship and figure out how I'm going to enter all this in my log. Tom. Martha.
Scene: Briefing room.
Computer said: Library computer.
Kirk said: History files. Subject, former Governor Kodos of Tarsus Four, also known as Kodos the Executioner. After that, background on actor Anton Karidian.
Computer said: Working. Kodos the Executioner, summary. Governor of Tarsus Four twenty Earth years ago. Invoked martial law. Slaughtered fifty percent of population Earth colony, that planet. Burned body found when Earth forces arrived. No positive identification. Case closed. Detailed information follows. On stardate 2794.7,
Kirk said: Stop. Information on Anton Karidian.
Computer said: Director and star of travelling company of actors sponsored by galactic cultural exchange project, touring official installations last nine years. Has daughter, Lenore, nineteen years old,
Kirk said: Stop. Give comparative identification between actor Karidian and Governor Kodos.
Computer said: No identification records available on actor Anton Karidian.
Kirk said: Give information on actor Karidian prior to Kodos' death.
Computer said: No information available, Anton Karidian, prior to twenty years ago
Kirk said: Photograph Kodos. (an image of a red-haired man with a beard comes on the monitor) Photograph Karidian. (the grey-haired man with a small moustache) Now photograph both.
Door opens
Kirk said: Mister Spock. You know Doctor Leighton, don't you? Would you say he's given to fantasy?
Spock said: A good empirical research scientist. Steady, reputable, occasionally brilliant.
Kirk said: With a very long memory.
Spock said: I have no information on that, Captain. We are ready to leave orbit.
Kirk said: We'll delay departure for a time. I'm beaming back down to the planet.
Scene: Leighton's home.
The cocktail party is in full swing in the main room, and Martha is bringing another tray of drinks for her guests.
Kirk said: Where's Tom?
Martha said: He went to town. He called. He's on his way back.
The lovely young blonde Lenore Karidian enters, and Kirk beams
Kirk said: The others are on the patio.
Lenore said: I take it you're the welcoming committee. (referring to his glass) Is that for me?
Kirk said: Why not? I saw your performance today. May I extend my appreciation?
Lenore said: My father will be delighted, Mister. Mister?
Kirk said: Captain James Kirk, Starship Enterprise.
Lenore said: We are honoured.
Kirk said: I had hoped to meet your father, here, tonight, personally.
Lenore said: I'm sorry, Captain Kirk. He has a rigid rule about that. He never sees anyone personally, and he never attends parties.
Kirk said: An actor turning away his admirers? Very unusual.
Lenore said: Karidian is a most unusual man. You saw Macbeth. That was my father.
Kirk said: Then I'll talk to Lady Macbeth.
They sit
Lenore said: So. Captain of the Enterprise. Interesting.
Kirk said: So, Lady Macbeth. Interesting. What's your next move?
Lenore said: We play two performances at Benecia, if the AstraI Queen can get us there.
Kirk said: She's a good ship. (takes a glass from a passing tray) Thank you. You were very impressive as Lady Macbeth.
Lenore said: Thank you. And as Lenore Karidian?
Kirk said: Very impressive. Lenore. I'd like to see you again.
Lenore said: You mean professionally?
Kirk said: Not necessarily.
Lenore said: I think I'd like that. Unfortunately, we must keep a schedule.
Kirk said: You don't have a schedule now, do you?
Lenore said: You mean leave? But I've only just arrived.
KIRK; So have I.
Lenore said: And you hate to overstay a welcome.
Kirk said: Exactly.
Lenore said: Why not?
Kirk said: Good. I'll make our apologies to our hostess. I'll meet you outside.
Scene: Countryside.
Meandering between rocks and scrubby trees, arm in arm
KIRK; Tired of walking?
Lenore said: No. Just thinking.
Kirk said: About what?
Lenore said: At the party, you were such a brash young man.
KIRK; And now?
Lenore said: Now somehow different. Not a ship's Captain with all those people to be strong and confident in front of. You know, you're really very dear, aren't you? In some ways, very lonely.
But just as their lips are about to meet, Kirk spots a body among the rocks and goes to investigate
Kirk said: It's Tom Leighton. He's dead.
Scene: Leighton's home.
Tom's body is laid out on the couch, and Martha covers it
Martha said: At least he has peace now. He never really had that before. Oh, why was Tom killed if what he suspected wasn't true?
Kirk said: I don't know. I'll try and find out.
Martha said: Oh, Jim. How I'll miss him. (bursts into tears and leaves)
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise.
Uhura said: Bridge here, Captain.
Kirk said: Put me through to Captain Jon Daily of the AstraI Queen on orbit station, and put it on scramble.
Uhura said: Captain Daily's on, sir.
KIRK; Jon? Jim Kirk.
Daily said: Hi, Jim.
Kirk said: Can you do me a favour?
Daily said: I owe you a dozen. Just ask.
Kirk said: Don't make your pick-up here.
Daily said: You mean strand all those actors?
Kirk said: I'll pick them up. And if there's any trouble, it'll be my responsibility.
Daily said: Will do. Anything else?
Kirk said: Just keep this between the two of us and accept my thanks. Over and out. Kirk to Enterprise.
Uhura said: Bridge here, Captain.
Kirk said: Transporter room, ready to beam up.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Ready to resume course, Captain.
Kirk said: I think we're due for a pick-up.
Spock said: What kind? Personnel? Cargo?
Uhura said: Captain? A Miss Karidian has been transported aboard ship. She requests permission to see you.
Kirk said: Tell her to come up to the Bridge, Lieutenant.
Scene: Transporter room.
Uhura said: Escort Miss Karidian to the Bridge.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: How did you know this lady was coming aboard?
Kirk said: I'm the Captain.
Lenore said: Captain Kirk, I didn't think we'd be meeting again so soon.
Kirk said: You probably wouldn't believe me if I told you I arranged it.
Lenore said: No, but it's a delightful thought. Captain, I'm afraid we need your help. We've been stranded. It seems that our transportation has cancelled out on us.
Kirk said: Can't you make other arrangements?
Lenore said: Yes, but not in time. You see, our schedule is like a chain. One break and it all collapses.
Kirk said: It'd be a shame if that happened.
Lenore said: If ever we needed a Good Samaritan.
Kirk said: Well.
Lenore said: I appeal to you.
Spock's eyebrow hits the ceiling
Kirk said: The regulations are very clear about taking on passengers.
Lenore said: I'll make a bargain with you, Captain.
Kirk said: What have you got to trade?
Lenore said: Special performance for the crew in exchange for a lift.
Kirk said: You make it sound very interesting. The crew has been on patrol for a long time. They could use a break in the monotony.
Lenore said: Then you'll do it?
Kirk said: You've got me backed into a corner. The men would never forgive me if I deprived them of your performance, and your presence.
Lenore said: Thank you, Captain. I'm eternally grateful. I'll get the company ready. This means so much to them.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, prepare to leave orbit as soon as the Karidian company is aboard the ship.
Lenore and her escort enter the turbolift
Spock said: May I inquire as to our course, Captain?
Kirk said: Benecia Colony.
Spock said: Benecia Colony is eight light years off our course.
Kirk said: If my memory needs refreshing, Mister Spock, I'll ask you for it. In the meantime, follow my orders.
Captain's log, stardate 2818.9. There are many questions in my mind, too many, perhaps, about the actor Karidian and his daughter. For personal reasons, I'm almost afraid to learn the answers.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, ETA the Benecia Colony.
Spock said: We'll arrive stardate 2825.3, Captain, approximately fifteen hundred Benecia time.
Kirk goes over to Spock's station and throws a few switches
Computer said: Library computer.
Kirk said: Data on question submitted to personnel files.
Computer said: Data being received. Kodos file of all survivors. There are nine actual eye witnesses who can identify Kodos.
Kirk said: Stop. Give list.
Computer said: Kirk, J., presently Enterprise Captain, Leighton, T., Moulton, E., Riley, K., Eames, D.,
Kirk said: Stop. Is that star service Lieutenant Kevin Riley?
Computer said: Affirmative. Riley, Kevin. Presently assigned U.S.S. Enterprise communications section.
Kirk said: Stop. Mister Spock.
Spock said: Captain.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Kevin Riley in communications, I wish to have him transferred down to the engineering decks.
Spock said: He came up from engineering, Captain.
Kirk said: I'm sending him back.
Spock said: Any explanation? He's a fine young officer. He's bound to consider this transfer a disciplinary action.
Kirk said: I don't wish to discuss it, Mister Spock. Please follow my orders.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: Mister Spock, the man on top walks a lonely street. The chain of command is often a noose.
Spock said: Spare me your philosophical metaphors, Doctor. The Captain is acting strangely. I'm asking if you've noticed.
Mccoy said: Negative. Did you know this is the first time in a week I've had time for a drop of the true? Would you care for a drink, Mister Spock?
Spock said: My father's race was spared the dubious benefits of alcohol.
Mccoy said: Now I know why they were conquered. What are you so worried about, anyway? I find Jim generally knows what he's doing.
Kirk said: It was illogical for him to bring those players aboard.
Mccoy said: Illogical? Did you get a look at that Juliet? That's a pretty exciting creature. Of course your, personal chemistry would prevent you from seeing that. Did it ever occur to you that he simply might like the girl?
Spock said: It occurred. I dismissed it.
Mccoy said: You would.
Spock said: Did you know that he suddenly transferred Lieutenant Riley to engineering?
Mccoy said: Lots of things go on around here that I don't know, Mister Spock. Now, he's the Captain. He can transfer whoever he pleases. You can look that up in a hundred volumes of space regulations somewhere. All right? Come on, have a drink.
Spock said: No, thank you.
Mccoy said: You're welcome. But I will. And please, Mister Spock, if you won't join me, don't disapprove of me. At least not until you've tried it, huh?
Scene: Observation deck.
Lenore is getting a personal tour of the ship
Kirk said: This is the observation deck. That's the flight deck down there with the shuttle craft.
Lenore said: Interesting.
Kirk said: Isn't it?
Lenore said: Tell me, Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Anything.
Lenore said: Did you order the soft lights especially for the occasion?
Kirk said: If I had ordered soft lights, I'd also have arranged for music and flowers. Unfortunately, it isn't so. On the Enterprise, we try to duplicate earth conditions of night and day as closely as possible.
Lenore said: Star light, star bright. I wish I may, I wish I might. Do you remember that, Captain?
Kirk said: It's very old.
Lenore said: Almost as old as the stars themselves. And this ship. All this power, surging and throbbing, yet under control. Are you like that, Captain? All this power at your command, yet the decisions that you have to make
Kirk said: Come from a very human source.
Lenore said: Are you, Captain? Human?
Kirk said: You can count on it.
Lenore said: Tell me about the women in your world, Captain.
Kirk said: I'd rather talk about you. You must have wanted to perform since you first saw your father act. When was that?
Lenore said: In the beginning.
Kirk said: Tell me about it.
Lenore said: That's not fair. You haven't answered my question about the women.
Kirk said: What would you like to know?
Lenore said: Has the machine changed them? Made them just people instead of women?
Kirk said: Worlds may change, galaxies disintegrate, but a woman always remains a woman.
Lenore said: All this and power too. The Caesar of the stars and the Cleopatra to worship him.
Finally, a passionate embrace
Scene: Bridge.
Spock is on duty, and thinking
Computer said: Library computer.
Spock said: Full personal dossiers on the following names. Doctor Thomas Leighton, Anton Karidian, Lieutenant Kevin Riley, and Captain James T. Kirk.
Computer said: Accomplished. Standing by.
Spock said: Correlate. Check their past histories. Report any item, any past episode or experience they all have in common.
Computer said: Affirmative.
Scene: Corridor.
Mccoy said: I appreciate whatever concern you may have for the ship's company, Mister Spock,
Spock said: I will continue, Doctor. According to our library banks, it started on the Earth colony of Tarsus Four, when the food supply was attacked by an exotic fungus and largely destroyed. There were over eight thousand colonists and virtually no food. And that was when Governor Kodos seized full power and declared emergency martial law.
Mccoy said: I've heard of it.
Spock said: You may not have heard it all. Kodos began to separate the colonists. Some would live, be rationed whatever food was left. The remainder would be immediately put to death. Apparently he had his own theories of eugenics.
Mccoy said: Unfortunately, he wasn't the first.
Spock said: Perhaps not. But he was certainly among the most ruthless, to decide arbitrarily who would survive and who would not, using his own personal standards, and then to implement his decision without mercy. Children watching their parents die. Whole families destroyed. Over four thousand people. They died quickly, without pain, but they died. Relief arrived, but too late to prevent the executions. And Kodos? There never was a positive identification of his body.
Mccoy said: What has Karidian to do with it?
Spock said: His history begins almost to the day where Kodos disappeared.
Mccoy said: You think Jim suspects he's Kodos?
Spock said: He'd better. There were nine eye witnesses who survived the massacre, who'd actually seen Kodos with their own eyes. Jim Kirk was one of them. With the exception of Riley and Captain Kirk, every other eye witness is dead. And my library computer shows that wherever they were, on Earth, on a colony, or aboard ship, the Karidian Company of Players was somewhere near when they died.
Mccoy said: It's unbelievable.
Scene: Engineering.
There's just one officer on duty, and he hasn't touched the meal lying on a plate nearby
Riley said: Hey. Rec room. Somebody.
Scene: Rec room.
Riley said: Talk to me.
Matson said: Larry Matson here. Is that you, Riley?
Scene: Engineering.
Matson said: What's up?
Riley said: Not me. I am down. In the engineering room.
Matson said: You've been a bad boy.
Riley said: Maybe so. Whatever I've done, they're sure keeping it a secret from me.
Scene: Rec room.
Riley said: Hey. Is that Uhura playing? Let me talk to her.
Matson said: I think his heart is sore.
Uhura said: What can I do for you, Riley?
Scene: Engineering.
Riley said: A song. Make it a love song. Just something to reassure me I'm not the only living thing left in the universe, huh?
Scene: Rec room.
Uhura said: Well, you're not, and I'll prove it to you.
sings The skies are green and glowing
Scene: Engineering.
Uhura said: Where my heart is
Where my heart is
Where the scented lunar flower is growing
Somewhere beyond the stars
Beyond Antares.
As Riley listens, we see a shadow moving
Scene: Rec room.
Uhura said: I'll be back, though it takes forever
Forever is just a day
Forever is just another journey
{Engineering]
Uhura said: Tomorrow a stop along the way
Something gets squirted into Riley's milk
Uhura said: Then let the years go fading
Scene: Rec room.
Uhura said: Where my heart is
Scene: Engineering.
Riley reaches for his tray;
Uhura said: Where my heart is
Where my love eternal is waiting'
Somewhere beyond the stars
Beyond Antares.
He drinks
Scene: Rec room.
Uhura said: How'd you like that, Riley?
Scene: Engineering.
But Riley is sweating and choking
Riley said: Help me, please.
He collapses
Scene: Sickbay.
Spock said: You've got to pull him through.
Mccoy said: I'm not sure I can.
Spock said: If he dies, the only one who'll be able to identify Kodos is the Captain. And he'll be the next target.
Captain's log, stardate 2819.1. Ship's officer Riley's condition worsening. Doctor McCoy making lab analysis to determine cause and antidote. Entire crew deeply concerned.
Scene: McCoy's office.
Mccoy said: As of this date, lab report indicates presence of appreciable amount of tetralubisol, a highly volatile lubricant in use aboard ship.
Spock said: Someone tried to poison him.
Mccoy said: Tetralubisol us a milky substance. Someone could have gotten careless, made a mistake.
Spock said: I don't believe that and neither do you. I want the Captain to see that report.
Mccoy said: When I've finished logging it.
Spock said: Now.
Scene: Captain's quarters.
Kirk said: Come.
Mccoy said: My report on Lieutenant Riley.
Kirk said: Will he make it?
Mccoy said: He's got a good chance.
Spock said: Can we predict the same for you, Captain?
Kirk said: All right, Mister Spock. Let's have it.
Spock said: Lieutenant Riley was a witness. So were you.
Kirk said: All right.
Spock said: Someone tried to kill him.
Mccoy said: Could have been an accident.
Spock said: You should be told the difference between empiricism and stubbornness, Doctor. I checked with the library computer, just as you did. I got the same information.
Kirk said: Aren't you getting a little out of line, Mister Spock? My personal business,
Spock said: Is my personal business when it might interfere with the smooth operation of this ship.
Kirk said: You think that happened?
Spock said: It could happen.
Kirk said: I don't like anyone meddling in my private affairs. Not even my second in command.
Mccoy said: Jim, Spock's simply trying,
Kirk said: I know what he's doing, and I don't like it.
Mccoy said: It's his job, and you know it.
Kirk said: And you also know that nothing is proven.
Spock said: Even in this corner of the galaxy, Captain, two plus two equals four. Almost certainly an attempt will be made to kill you. Why do you invite death?
Kirk said: I'm not. I'm interested in justice.
Mccoy said: Are you? Are you sure it's not vengeance?
Kirk said: No, I'm not sure. I wish I was. I've done things I've never done before. I've placed my command in jeopardy. From here on I've got to determine whether or not Karidian is Kodos.
Spock said: He is.
Kirk said: You sound certain. I wish I could be. Before I accuse a man of that, I've got to be. I saw him once, twenty years ago. Men change. Memory changes. Look at him now, he's an actor. He can change his appearance. No. Logic is not enough. I've got to feel my way, make absolutely sure.
Mccoy said: What if you decide he is Kodos? What then? Do you play God, carry his head through the corridors in triumph? That won't bring back the dead, Jim.
Kirk said: No, but they may rest easier.
A scene break, during which McCoy apparently leaves
Spock said: Logic, Captain. Doctor Leighton was murdered while the Karidian Company was on Planet Q. Now an attempt has been made against Riley while the company is on board the Enterprise.
Kirk said: Doc isn't sure it was a murder attempt. Besides, I have an idea may prove
Spock said: Shh. Listen. Do you hear it? That low hum.
Kirk said: A phaser.
Spock said: On overload. (starts searching)
Kirk said: This is the Captain. There's a phaser on overload in my quarters. If it blows, it'll take out the entire deck. Evacuate all personnel in this quadrant. Double Red Alert. (now starts searching himself) You get out of here.
Spock said: You can't stay.
Kirk said: Go on. Block off this section. Hurry. I'll find it.
Scene: Corridor.
Spock said: Evacuate this section. Seal it off. Clear section C4 and C5.
In Kirk's quarters the noise gets louder, and finally he sees the phaser silhouetted against the Red Alert light high in a bulkhead. He gets it, dashes into the corridor and drops it into a convenient pressure waste disposal unit directly opposite. Spock returns in time for the bang that throws them against the opposite wall
Scene: Karidian's quarters.
Kirk said: (barging in without knocking) We're overdue for our talk, aren't we?
Karidian said: I hoped you would have respected my privacy, Captain.
Kirk said: A moment ago, we narrowly averted an explosion which would have destroyed several decks of this ship. Before that, someone tried to poison one of my crewmen.
Karidian said: I am sorry to hear that.
Kirk said: I'm sure you are. Are you Kodos? I asked you a question.
Karidian said: Do you believe that I am?
Kirk said: I do.
Karidian said: Then I am Kodos, if it pleases you to believe so. I am an actor. I play many parts.
Kirk said: You're an actor now. What were you twenty years ago?
Karidian said: Younger, Captain. Much younger.
Kirk said: So was I. But I remember. Let's see if you do. Read this into that communicator on the wall. It will be recorded and compared to a piece of Kodos' voice film we have in our files. The test is virtually infallible. It will tell us whether you're Karidian, or Kodos the Executioner. (switches on comm.) Ready for voice test. Disguising your voice will make no difference.
Karidian said: (reading) The revolution is successful, but survival depends on drastic measures. Your continued existence represents a threat to the well-being of society. (stops looking at the paper) Your lives means slow death to the more valued members of the colony. Therefore I have no alternative but to sentence you to death. Your execution is so ordered. Signed, Kodos, governor of Tarsus Four.
Kirk said: I remember the words. I wrote them down. You said them like you knew them. You hardly glanced at the paper.
Karidian said: I learn my parts very quickly.
Kirk said: Are you sure? Are you sure you didn't act this role out in front of a captive audience whom you blasted out of existence without mercy?
Karidian said: I find your use of the word mercy strangely inappropriate, Captain. Here you stand, the perfect symbol of our technical society. Mechanised, electronicised, and not very human. You've done away with humanity, the striving of man to achieve greatness through his own resources.
Kirk said: We've armed man with tools. The striving for greatness continues. But Kodos
Karidian said: Kodos, whoever he was
Kirk said: Or is.
Karidian said: Or is. Kodos made a decision of life and death. Some had to die that others might live. You're a man of decision, Captain. You ought to understand that.
Kirk said: All I understand is that four thousand people were needlessly butchered.
Karidian said: In order to save four thousand others. And if the supply ships hadn't come earlier than expected, this Kodos of yours might have gone down in history as a great hero.
Kirk said: But he didn't. And history has made its judgment.
Karidian said: If you're so sure that I'm Kodos, why not kill me now? Let bloody vengeance take its final course! And see what difference it makes to this universe of yours.
Kirk said: Those beautiful words, well acted, change nothing.
Karidian said: I suppose not. They're merely tools, like this ship of yours.
Kirk said: There are no previous records to Anton Karidian prior to twenty years ago.
Karidian said: Blood thins. The body fails. One is finally grateful for a failing memory. I no longer treasure life, not even my own. I am tired! And the past is a blank. Did you get everything you, wanted, Captain Kirk?
Kirk said: If I had gotten everything I wanted, you might not walk out of this room alive.
Lenore said: Captain Kirk.
She enters from the next room
Lenore said: (to Karidian) You'd better rest now. There's a stain of cruelty on your shining armour, Captain. You could have spared him, and me. You talked of using tools. I was a tool, wasn't l? A tool to use against my father.
Kirk said: In the beginning perhaps. But later, I wanted it to be more than that.
Lenore said: Later. Everything's always later. Later. Latest. Too late. Too late, Captain. You are like your ship, powerful, and not human. There is no mercy in you.
Kirk said: If he is Kodos, then I've shown him more mercy than he deserves. And if he isn't, then we'll let you off at Benecia, and no harm done. LENORE: Captain Kirk. Who are you to say what harm was done?
Kirk said: Who do I have to be?
Scene: Sickbay.
Kevin is pacing up and down in the background, overhearing what is being dictated
Mccoy said: Medical log. Lieutenant Riley's sufficiently recovered to be discharged, but the Captain's ordered him restricted to Sickbay to prevent contact with the passenger who calls himself Karidian and who's suspected of being Kodos the Executioner and of murdering the Lieutenant's family.
Captain's log, stardate 2819.8. Suspect under surveillance. Strategic areas under double guard. Performance of the Karidian Players taking place as scheduled.
Scene: Ship's Theatre.
;
Lenore said: (on stage) Tonight, the Karidian Players present Hamlet, another in a series of living plays presented in space, dedicated to the tradition of classic theatre. Hamlet is a violent play about violent times when life was cheap and ambition was God.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Two pieces of paper are lined up on his desk
Spock said: I believe we have a match, Captain.
Kirk said: But not an exact match, Mister Spock. We're dealing with a man's life. No machine can make that decision.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: In the long history of medicine, no doctor has ever caught the first few minutes of a play. Riley, don't forget to
but he's not there
Mccoy said: Riley? Captain Kirk, McCoy here.
Kirk said: Yes, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Riley's gone. I was recording my log about Karidian and Kodos. If he overheard
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Kirk said: You've made your point, Doctor.
Security said: Captain? Security, H deck, The weapons locker has been broken into. One phaser is missing.
Kirk said: This is the Captain. Security two alert. Find and restrain Lieutenant Kevin Riley. He's armed and possibly headed towards the ship's theatre.
Scene: Ship's Theatre.
The Ghost summons Hamlet
Hamlet said: Whither wilt thou lead me? Speak, I'll go no further.
KARIDIAN Mark me.
Hamlet said: I will.
Kirk comes creeping around backstage
Karidian said: My hour is almost come, when I to sulphurous and tormenting fires must render up myself.
Hamlet said: Speak. I am bound to hear.
Karidian said: So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear. I am thy father's spirit, doomed for a certain term to walk the night,
Kirk spots Kevin with the phaser
Kirk said: Riley, get back to the Sickbay.
Riley said: He murdered my father, and my mother.
Kirk said: You could be wrong. Don't throw away your life on a mistake.
Riley said: I'm not wrong.
Karidian said: But that I am forbid to tell the secrets of my prison house,
Riley said: I know that voice, that face, I know it. I saw it. He murdered them.
Karidian said: Thy soul, freeze thy young blood.
Kirk said: It's an order. Give me the weapon.
Takes it from Riley
Kirk said: Now get back to Sickbay. Go on.
Riley leaves, and there is polite applause at the end of the scene on stage. Karidian comes backstage.
Lenore said: It's going beautifully. What is it? What's wrong?
Karidian said: There was a voice out of the past haunting me, torturing me. There was another part I once played long ago. I never told you about it. Now that same curtain rises again. The time has come.
Lenore said: No, Father. The time will never come. Tonight, after my performance, the last two who can harm you will be gone.
Karidian said: What are you saying?
Lenore said: There were nine. Now there are only two, and they will be gone as soon as I. Don't look at me like that.
Karidian said: What have you done?
Lenore said: What had to be done. They had to be silenced.
Karidian said: All of them? All seven? More blood on my hands?
Lenore said: No Father, not anymore. I'm strong, Father. It's nothing.
Stagehand said: Second act, three minutes.
Lenore said: We'll be ready. Don't you see? All the ghosts are dead. I've buried them. There's no more blood on your hands.
Karidian said: Oh, my child, my child. You've left me nothing! You were the one thing in my life untouched by what I'd done.
Lenore said: But you're safe now, Father. I've saved you. Now, no one can touch you. Not even Captain Kirk. See Caesar come? He's awed by your greatness, your shining brightness. Bright as a blade before it is stained with blood.
Kirk said: Bright as a blade. Come with me, both of you.
Lenore said: Of course. After the play.
Kirk said: The play is over. It's been over for twenty years.
Karidian said: I was a soldier in a cause. There were things to be done, terrible things.
Lenore said: Stop it, Father! You have nothing to justify.
Karidian said: Murder, flight, suicide, madness. I never wanted the blood on my hands ever to stain you.
Lenore said: I did it for you. I've saved you.
Kirk said: By killing seven innocent men.
Lenore said: They weren't innocent! They were dangerous! I would have killed a world to save him!
Stagehand said: Curtain going up, one minute.
Kirk takes Karidian's arm
Lenore said: The play, Captain. He must go on. This is the great Karidian.
Kirk said: Guard.
Lenore said: You cannot deny him his last performance!
She grabs the security guard's phaser and runs out onto the stage
Karidian said: Lenore, don't!
Kirk said: You'll never get off the ship.
Lenore said: It will become a floating tomb, drifting through space with the soul of the great Karidian giving performances at every star he touches. (Kirk moves towards her) I know how to use this, Captain.
Karidian said: No.
Lenore said: Caesar, beware the ides of March.
Karidian said: No, child! Don't!
As she squeezes the trigger, her father steps in front of Kirk, and takes the shot himself. Lenore screams at what she has done. and Kirk takes the phaser from her as she kneels over Karidian's body
Lenore said: Father. Father! O, proud, death! What feast is toward in thine eternal cell, that thou, such a prince at a shot so bloodily hast struck? The curtain, the curtain rises. It rises. There's no time to sleep. The play. The play. The play's the thing, wherein we'll catch the conscience of the king.
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: Medical report. (hands it over) She'll receive the best of care, Jim. She remembers nothing. She even thinks her father's still alive giving performances before cheering crowds. You really cared for her, didn't you?
Spock said: Ready to leave Benecia orbit, Captain.
Kirk said: Stand by, Mister Leslie. All channels cleared, Uhura?
Uhura said: All channels clear, sir.
Kirk said: Whenever you're ready, Mister Leslie.
Leslie said: Leaving orbit, sir.
Mccoy said: You're not going to answer my question, are you?
Kirk said: Ahead warp factor one, Mister Leslie.
Mccoy said: That's an answer.