Court Martial
Stardate: 2947.3
Original Airdate: 2 Feb, 1967
Captain's Log, Stardate 2947.3. We have been through a severe ion storm. One crewman is dead. Ship's damage is considerable. I have ordered a non-scheduled layover on Starbase Eleven for repairs. A full report of damages was made to the commanding officer of Starbase Eleven, Commodore Stone.
Scene: Stone's Office.
Kirk is not in his usual gold shirt, but a green one with gold braiding.
Stone said: Maintenance Section Eighteen. The section is working on the Intrepid. Reschedule. The Enterprise is on priority one. That makes three times you've read it, Jim. Is there an error?
Kirk said: No. But the death of the crewman.
Stone said: Regulations, Captain. And the extract from your ship's computer log confirming this sworn deposition?
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise.
Uhura said: Bridge here. Go ahead, Captain.
Kirk said: Where's Mister Spock with that computer log extract?
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: He should have been there ten minutes ago, sir.
Scene: Stone's Office.
Kirk said: Kirk out.;
Stone said: It's a great pity. The service can't afford to lose men like Lieutenant Commander Finney.
Kirk said: I agree. I waited until the last possible moment. We were on Red Alert. The storm got worse. I had to jettison the pod.
The two man transporter alcove in the corner activates.
Kirk said: What took you so long, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Captain, I believe I
Stone said: I'll take that.
As he puts the data card into his computer, the door opens and a teenage girl dressed in blue enters.
Kirk said: Jamie.
Jamie said: There you are. I just wanted one more look at you. The man who killed my father.
Kirk said: That's not so. He was my friend.
Jamie said: Your friend? You hated him all your life! That's why you killed him, you murderer! You murderer! You murderer!
She dissolves into tears.
Stone said: Mister Spock, would you please?
Spock said: Miss Finney, come with me, please.
They leave.
Stone said: Captain Kirk, you say you jettisoned the pod after the Red Alert?
Kirk said: You have my sworn deposition.;
Stone said: Then, Captain, I must presume you've committed willful perjury. This extract from your computer log says you jettisoned the pod before going to Red Alert. Consider yourself confined to the base. Official inquiry will determine whether a general court martial is in order.
Captain's Log, Stardate 2948.5. Starship Enterprise remains in orbit around Starbase Eleven. Full repairs in progress. I've been ordered to stand by on Starbase Eleven until the inquiry into the death of Lieutenant Commander Finney can be conducted. I'm confident of the outcome.
Scene: Starbase Club.
Kirk and McCoy enter, and go to the bar.
Kirk said: Timothy, I haven't seen you since the Vulcanian expedition. (no reply) Well, I see our graduating class from the Academy is well represented. Corrigan. Teller. How you doing, Mike?
Mike said: (An older man in a gold shirt) I'll get by, Jim.
Timothy said: (Dark hair, red shirt) I understand you're laying over for repairs. Big job?
Kirk said: Couple of days.
Timothy said: You moving out then?
Kirk said: In a hurry to see me go?
Timothy said: Oh, I just wondered how long it'd take to get a new records officer.
Kirk said: You can talk plainer than that.
Timothy said: I can, but I think the point's been made. Ben was a friend of ours.
Mccoy said: Come on, Jim. Let's go.
Kirk said: Go on. Finish. Ben was a friend of yours, and
Mccoy said: Jim.
Kirk said: Go on. I'm waiting to hear the rest.
Mike said: Why don't you tell us?
Kirk said: What would be the point? You've already made up your minds. Excuse me, Bones.
Leaves, just as a lady in a floaty green dress enters.
Mccoy said: If you have any doubt, that was indeed Captain James Kirk of the Enterprise.
Shaw said: Yes, I know. Are you a friend of his?
Mccoy said: In these trying times, one of the few. Doctor Leonard McCoy. And you?;
Shaw said: Areel Shaw. And I'm a friend, too. An old one.
Mccoy said: All of my old friends look like doctors. All of his look like you. Well, you might as well join me for a drink. With this inquiry coming up, he's going to need all the friends he can get.
Scene: Stone's Office.
Computer said: Recording inquiry. Matter. Captain Kirk, James T. Subject. Circumstances of death, Lieutenant Commander Finney, Benjamin.
Stone said: This inquiry, to determine whether a general court-martial should be convened against Captain Kirk on charges of perjury and culpable negligence.
Kirk said: Ready.
Stone said: Let us begin with your relationship with Commander Finney. You knew him for a long time, didn't you?;
Kirk said: Yes. He was an instructor at the Academy when I was a midshipman, but that didn't stand in the way of our beginning a close friendship. His daughter Jamie, who was here last night, was named after me.
Stone said: It's common knowledge that something happened to your friendship.
Kirk said: It's no secret. We were assigned to the same ship some years later. I relieved him on watch once and found a circuit open to the atomic matter piles that should've been closed. Another five minutes, it could have blown up the ship.
Computer said: Ship nomenclature. Specify.
Kirk said: United Starship Republic, number 1371.
Stone said: Continue.;
Kirk said: I closed the switch and logged the incident. He drew a reprimand and was sent to the bottom of the promotion list.
Stone said: And he blamed you for that?
Kirk said: Yes. He had been at the Academy for an unusually long time as an instructor. As a result, he was late in being assigned to a starship. The delay, he felt, looked bad on his record. My action, he believed, made things worse.
Stone said: Comment. Service record of Lieutenant Commander Finney to be appended this inquiry.
Computer said: Noted.
Stone said: Now let's get into the specifics of the storm, Captain.
Kirk said: Weather scan indicated an ion storm dead ahead. I sent Finney into the pod.;
Stone said: Why Finney?
Kirk said: His name was at the top of the duty roster.
Stone said: If he blamed you
Kirk said: He may have blamed me that he never rose to command a ship, but I don't assign jobs on the basis of who blames me. It was Finney's turn, and I assigned him. He had just checked in with me from the pod when we hit the leading edge of the storm. Not too bad at first. I signalled a Yellow Alert. Then we began encountering pressure, variant stress, force seven, the works. I finally signaled a Red Alert. Finney knew he had a matter of seconds. I gave him those seconds and more. But apparently it wasn't enough.
Stone said: Then why, Captain, does the computer log from your ship, made automatically at the time, indicate that you were still on Yellow Alert when you jettisoned and not on Red?
Kirk said: I don't know. There's been a mistake.
Stone said: It would seem so. Could the computer be wrong?
Kirk said: Mister Spock is running a survey right now, but the odds are next to impossible.
Stone said: Stop recording. Now, look, Jim. Not one man in a million could do what you and I have done. Command a starship. A hundred decisions a day, hundreds of lives staked on you making every one of them right. You're played out, Jim. Exhausted.
Kirk said: Is that the way you see it?
Stone said: That's the way my report'll read if you co-operate.
Kirk said: A physical breakdown. Possibly even mental collapse.
Stone said: Possibly.
Kirk said: I'd be admitting a man died because
Stone said: Admit nothing. Say nothing. Let me bury the matter here and now. No starship captain has ever stood trial before, and I don't want you to be the first. KIRK: But if what you suspect is true, then I'm guilty. I should be punished.
Stone said: I'm thinking of the service. I won't have it smeared.
Kirk said: By what, Commodore Stone?
Stone said: All right. By an evident perjurer who's either covering his bad judgment, his cowardice, or
Kirk said: That's as far as you go, sir. I'm telling you I was there on the Bridge. I know what happened. I know what I did.
Stone said: It's in the transcript, and computer transcripts don't lie. I'm telling you, Captain, either you accept a permanent ground assignment, or the whole disciplinary weight of Starfleet command is going to light right on your neck.
Kirk said: So that's the way we do it now? Sweep it under the rug, and me along with it? Not on your life. I intend to fight.
Stone said: Then you draw a general court.
Kirk said: Draw it? I demand it. And right now, Commodore Stone. Right now.
Captain's Log, Stardate 2948.9. The officers who will comprise my court-martial board are proceeding to Starbase Eleven. Meanwhile, repairs on the Enterprise are almost complete.
Scene: Starbase Club.
Kirk goes to the table of the lady in green, and kisses her hands.
Kirk said: Areel. Doctor McCoy said you were here. I should have felt it in the air, like static electricity.
Shaw said: Flattery will get you everywhere.
KIRK; It's been, how long has it been?
Shaw said: Four years, seven months, and an odd number of days. Not that I'm counting.
Kirk said: You look marvellous. You haven't changed a bit.
Shaw said: But things have changed for you, haven't they?
Kirk said: Oh, you've heard about that, have you?
Shaw said: I'm a lawyer in the Judge Advocate's office, remember?
Kirk said: I remember. Let's forget it. We have a lot of lost time to make up for.
Shaw said: You're taking it very lightly.
Kirk said: The confidence of an innocent man.
Shaw said: Are you? That's not what the rumours indicate.
Kirk said: Look, Let's not talk shop.
Shaw said: Jim, this could ruin you. Will you take some advice?
Kirk said: I never could talk you into anything. All right. Fire away.
Shaw said: The prosecution will build its case on the basis of Kirk versus the computer. Now if your attorney tries to defend on that basis, you won't have a chance.
Kirk said: What other choice is there?
Shaw said: That's up to your attorney, and that's why he's got to be a good one.
Kirk said: You, perhaps?
Shaw said: No, I'm busy.
Kirk said: Well, a girl with your ability should be able to handle two cases at once.
Shaw said: Jim, be serious. You're not an ordinary human. You're a Starship Captain, and you've stepped into scandal. If there's any way they can do it, they'll slap you down hard and permanently for the good of the service.
Kirk said: You still haven't made any recommendation.
Shaw said: Samuel T. Cogley, attorney at law. If anyone can save you, he can. He'll be paying you a visit. Jim, I've got to go.
Kirk said: Areel, you still haven't told me how you know so much about what the prosecution's going to do.
Shaw said: Because, Jim Kirk, my dear old love, I am the prosecution, and I have to do my very best to have you slapped down hard. Broken out of the service, in disgrace.
Scene: Kirk's room.
Kirk is about to pour himself a drink.
Cogley said: You Kirk?
Kirk said: Yes. (Notices the piles of books everywhere) What is all this?
Cogley said: I figure we'll be spending some time together, so I moved in.
Kirk said: I hope I'm not crowding you.
Cogley said: What's the matter? Don't you like books?
Kirk said: Oh, I like them fine, but a computer takes less space.
Cogley said: A computer, huh? I got one of these in my office. Contains all the precedents. The synthesis of all the great legal decisions written throughout time. I never use it.
Kirk said: Why not?;
Cogley said: I've got my own system. Books, young man, books. Thousands of them. If time wasn't so important, I'd show you something. My library. Thousands of books.
Kirk said: And what would be the point?
Cogley said: This is where the law is. Not in that homogenised, pasteurised, synthesiser. Do you want to know the law, the ancient concepts in their own language, Learn the intent of the men who wrote them, from Moses to the tribunal of Alpha 3? Books.
Kirk said: You have to be either an obsessive crackpot who's escaped from his keeper or Samuel T. Cogley, attorney at law.
Cogley said: Right on both counts. Need a lawyer?
Kirk said: I'm afraid so.
Scene: Courtroom.
There are four officers in dress uniform on the bench, including Stone.
Stone said: This court is now in session. I have appointed as members of this court Space Command Representative Lindstrom, Starship Captains Krasnovsky and Chandra. Captain Kirk, I direct your attention to the fact that you have a right to ask for substitute officers if you feel that any of these named harbour any prejudiced attitudes to your case.
Kirk said: I have no objections, sir.
Stone said: Do you consent to the service Lieutenant Shaw as prosecuting officer and to myself as president of the court?
Kirk said: I do, sir.
Stone said: All right, clerk.
Computer said: Charge, culpable negligence. Specification in that on Stardate 2945.7, by such negligence, Captain Kirk, James T., did cause loss of life, to wit, the life of Records Officer Lieutenant Commander Finney, Benjamin. To all recorded charges and specifications, what is the plea?
Kirk said: Not guilty.
Stone said: Proceed, Lieutenant.
Shaw said: I call Mister Spock.
Spock hands over his data chip, sits down and puts his hand on the lie detector.
Computer said: Spock, serial number S179-276SP. Service rank, Lieutenant Commander. Position, First officer, science officer. Current assignment, USS Enterprise. Commendations, Vulcanian Scientific Legion of Honour. Awards of valour. Twice decorated by Starfleet command.
Shaw said: Mister Spock, as a First officer, you know a great deal about computers, don't you?
Spock said: I know all about them.
Shaw said: It is possible for a computer to malfunction, is it not?
Spock said: Affirmative.
Shaw said: Do you know of any malfunction which has caused an inaccuracy in the Enterprise computer?
Spock said: Negative.
Shaw said: That answer is based on your mechanical survey of the Enterprise computer ordered by the defendant prior to this trial, is it not?
Spock said: Affirmative.
Shaw said: Now the stardate
Spock said: But the computer is inaccurate, never the less.
Shaw said: Why do you say that?
Spock said: It reports that the jettison button was pressed before the Red Alert.
Shaw said: In other words, it reports that Captain Kirk was reacting to an extreme emergency that did not then exist.
Spock said: And that is impossible.
Shaw said: Is it? Were you watching him the exact moment he pressed the jettison button?
Spock said: No, I was occupied. The ship was already on Yellow Alert.
Shaw said: Then how can you dispute the finding of the log?
Spock said: I do not dispute it. I merely state that it is wrong.
Shaw said: Oh? On what do you base that statement?
Spock said: I know the Captain. He is in
Shaw said: Please instruct the witness not to speculate.
Spock said: Lieutenant, I am half Vulcanian. Vulcanians do not speculate. I speak from pure logic. If I let go of a hammer on a planet that has a positive gravity, I need not see it fall to know that it has in fact fallen.
Shaw said: I do not see what that has to
Spock said: Gentlemen, human beings have characteristics just as inanimate objects do. It is impossible for Captain Kirk to act out of panic or malice. It is not his nature.
Shaw said: In your opinion.
Spock said: Yes. In my opinion.
Shaw said: Thank you. Your witness, Mister Cogley.
Cogley said: No questions.
Stone said: You may step down.
Shaw said: I now call the personnel officer for the Enterprise.
Computer said: Service rank, Ensign. Position, personnel officer. Current assignment, USS Enterprise.
Shaw said: In the course of your duties as personnel officer of the Enterprise, you would be familiar with the service records of all aboard?
Ensign said: (A young Asian woman) Yes, ma'am.
Shaw said: With reference to Records Officer Finney, was there in his service record a reported disciplinary action for failure to close a circuit?
Ensign said: Yes, ma'am.
Shaw said: Was the charge in that instance based upon a log entry by the officer who relieved him?
Ensign said: Yes, ma'am.
Shaw said: And who was that officer?
Ensign said: Ensign James T. Kirk.
Shaw said: Louder, please, for the court.
Ensign said: Ensign James T. Kirk.
Shaw said: Now the Captain Kirk who sits in this courtroom?
Ensign said: Yes, ma'am.
Shaw said: Thank you. Do you wish to cross-examine, Mister Cogley?
Cogley said: No questions.
Stone said: You may step down.
Shaw said: I now call Doctor McCoy to the stand.
Computer said: Service rank, Lieutenant Commander. Position, Ship's Surgeon. Current assignment, USS Enterprise. Commendations, Legion of Honour. Awards of valour. Decorated by Starfleet surgeons.
Shaw said: Doctor, you are, on the record, an expert in psychology, especially space psychology. Patterns which develop in the close quarters of a ship during long voyages in deep space.
Mccoy said: I know something about it.
Shaw said: You have just heard the testimony of your own personnel officer, that it was an action of the then Ensign Kirk, which placed an unerasable blot on the record of the then Lieutenant Finney. Psychologically, Doctor, is it possible that Lieutenant Finney blamed Kirk for the incident?
Mccoy said: It's possible.
Shaw said: He could have hated Kirk down through the years, blamed him for being passed over for promotion, blamed him for never being given a command of his own, correct?
Mccoy said: He could have.
Shaw said: Now, let us hypothesise, Doctor. Is it normal for a person to return affection for hatred?
Mccoy said: No.
Shaw said: Do we not tend to at first resent and then actively dislike the person who hates us?
Mccoy said: Wait a minute. I don't quite follow you.
Shaw said: Hypothetically. Would not Captain Smith begin to hate Lieutenant Commander Jones once he learned that Lieutenant Commander Jones hated and detested him?
Mccoy said: Well, yes, I suppose it could happen.
Shaw said: Then I ask you, is it not possible that Captain Kirk became aware of Lieutenant Commander Finney's hatred toward him and perhaps, even involuntarily, began to reciprocate?
Mccoy said: Not Captain Kirk.
Shaw said: Any normal human, Doctor. Is it possible?
Mccoy said: But he's not that kind of a man.
Shaw said: Is it theoretically possible, Doctor?
Mccoy said: Yes. It's possible.
Shaw said: Thank you. Your witness, Mister Cogley.
Cogley said: No questions.
Stone said: You may step down. Mister Cogley. You've listened to testimony from three witnesses, and in neither instance have you availed yourself of your right to cross-examine. Have you abrogated that right?
Cogley said: Well, sir, the truth is, I've been holding back till we get this preliminary business out of the way. I'd like to call Captain Kirk to the stand.
Computer said: James T. Kirk, serial number SC937-0176CEC. Service rank, Captain. Position, Starship command. Current assignment, USS Enterprise. Commendations, Palm Leaf Of Axanar Peace Mission, Grankite Order of Tactics, Class of Excellence, Prantares Ribbon of Commendation, Classes first and second
Shaw said: May it please the court.
Stone said: Court recognises counsel for the prosecution.
Shaw said: The prosecution concedes the inestimable record of Captain Kirk.
Stone said: Mister Cogley?
Cogley said: I wouldn't want to slow the wheels of progress. But then on the other hand, I wouldn't want those wheels to run over my client in their unbridled haste.
Stone said: Continue.
Computer said: Awards of valour, Medal of Honour, Silver Palm with Cluster, Starfleet citation for Conspicuous Gallantry, Karagite Order of Heroism
Cogley said: Stop. I think that's enough. I wouldn't want to slow things up too much.
Shaw said: Thank you.
Cogley said: Now, Captain, despite what these machines indicate, was there indeed a Red Alert before you jettisoned the pod?
Kirk said: Yes, sir, there was.;
Cogley said: Please tell us about it.
Kirk said: Firstly, I am at a loss to explain the errors in the extract from the computer log. We were in an ion storm. Everyone here in this court knows the dangers involved. I was in command. The decisions were mine, no one else's. Charges of malice have been raised. There was no malice. Lieutenant Commander Finney was a member of my crew, and that's exactly the way he was treated. It has been suggested that I panicked on the bridge and jettisoned the ion pod prematurely. That is not so. You've heard some of the details of my record. This was not my first crisis. It was one of many. During it, I did what my experience and training required me to do. I took the proper steps in the proper order. I did exactly what had to be done, exactly when it should have been done.
Cogley said: You did the right thing, but would you do it again?
Kirk said: Given the same circumstances I would do the same thing without hesitation, because the steps I took in the order I took them were absolutely necessary if I were to save my ship. And nothing is more important than my ship.
Cogley said: Your witness, Miss Shaw.
Shaw said: The prosecution does not wish to dishonour this man, but facts are facts. I must invite the attention of the court and Captain Kirk to this visual extract from the Enterprise computer log. Play back. What you are about to see is precisely what took place on the Enterprise bridge during the ion storm.
Scene: Bridge.
On the courtroom viewscreen
Uhura said: Meteorology reports ion storm upcoming, Captain.
Kirk said: We'll need somebody in the pod for readings.
Spock said: Mister Finney is top of duty roster, Captain.
Kirk said: Post him.
Spock said: Attention, Commander Finney, report to pod for reading on ion plates.
Finney said: Message Received.
Spock said: Officer posted, Captain.
The ship suddenly judders
Kirk said: Stand by on alert status, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Acknowledged.
Hanson said: Approaching ion storm, sir.
Kirk said: Warp factor one, Mister Hanson.
Hanson said: Warp one, sir.
There's another sharp jerk, and Kirk presses a button on his chair panel.
Scene: Courtroom.
Shaw said: Reverse. Stop. Go forward with magnification on the panel. Freeze that. Captain Kirk is now signalling a Yellow Alert. Go forward, normal view.
Scene: Bridge.
On courtroom viewscreen.
Uhura said: Call from the pod, sir.
Kirk said: Tie in.
Finney said: Finney here, Captain. Ion readings in progress.
Kirk said: Make it fast, Ben. I may have to go to Red Alert.
Finney said: Affirmative.
Kirk said: Hold our course, Mister Hanson.
Hanson said: Aye, aye, sir. Natural vibrations, force two, Captain. Force three.
Kirk said: Engineering, then ion pod.
Uhura said: Aye, aye, sir.
Crewman said: Engineering.
Kirk said: One third more thrust.
Crewman said: Working.
Finney said: Ion pod.
Kirk said: Stand by to get out of there, Ben.
Finney said: Aye, aye, sir.
Hanson said: Force five, sir.
Kirk said: Steady as she goes, Mister Hanson.
And the close up on the Captain's panel shows...
Scene: Courtroom.
Shaw said: Freeze that! If the court will notice, the log plainly shows the defendant's finger pressing the jettison button. The condition signal reads Yellow Alert. Not red alert, but simply Yellow Alert. When the pod containing Lieutenant Commander Finney was jettisoned, the emergency did not as yet exist.
Kirk said: But that's not the way it happened.
Captain's Log, Stardate 2949.9. The evidence presented by the visual playback to my general court-martial was damning. I suspect even my attorney has begun to doubt me.
Scene: Kirk's room.
Cogley said: Computers don't lie.
Kirk said: Are you suggesting that I did?
Cogley said: I'm suggesting that maybe you did have a lapse. It was possible, you know, with the strain you were under. There's still time to change our plea. I could get you off.
Kirk said: Two days ago, I would've staked anything on my judgment.
Cogley said: You did. Your professional career.
Kirk said: I spent my whole life training for decisions just like that one. My whole life. Is it possible that when the moment came? No. I know what I did. You can pull out if you want to.
Cogley said: There's no place to go, except back to court and hear the verdict.
Communicator beeps
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Spock said: Captain.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: I've run a complete megalyte survey on the computer.
Scene: Kirk's room.
Kirk said: I'll tell you what you found. Nothing, right?
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: You sound bitter, Captain.
Scene: Kirk's room.
Kirk said: Not bitter enough to forget to thank you for your efforts.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Further instructions?
Scene: Kirk's room.
Kirk said: No. It's not all bad, Mister Spock. Who knows. You may be able to beat your next captain at chess. Kirk out.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Chess.
Scene: Kirk's room.
The door opens
Kirk said: Jamie. This is Lieutenant Commander Finney's daughter.
Jamie said: Mister Cogley, we've got to stop this. Make him take a ground assignment. I realise it wasn't his fault. I won't make any trouble. Make him change his plea.
Kirk said: It's too late for that, Jamie, but I'm glad you don't blame me anymore for what happened.
Jamie said: I was just so upset that night. I'm sorry.
Kirk said: Don't say any more.
Jamie said: But I have to. I never realised how close you and Dad had been until I read through some papers he wrote, letters to Mother and me. I don't know how I ever could've thought that you. Mister Cogley, ruining Jim won't change what's happened.
Cogley said: That's very commendable, Miss Finney, but most unusual. After all, Captain Kirk is accused of causing your father's death, and the evidence would indicate his guilt.
Jamie said: I was just thinking of Jim.
Kirk said: I know, and I thank you. I have to go and change. You ready?
Cogley said: No, but I may be getting ready.
Scene: Briefing room.
Computer said: Bishop, half level right.
Mccoy said: Well, I had to see it to believe it.
Spock said: Explain.
Mccoy said: They're about to lop off the captain's professional head, and you're sitting here playing chess with the computer.
Spock said: That is true.
Mccoy said: Mister Spock, you're the most cold-blooded man I've ever known.
Spock said: Why, thank you, Doctor. I've just won my fourth game.
Mccoy said: That's impossible.
Spock said: Observe for yourself. Rook to king's pawn four.
Computer said: Bishop, half level right.
Spock said: Now, this is the computer's move. And now mine. (takes the bishop) Checkmate. Mechanically, the computer's flawless. Therefore, logically, its report of the captain's guilt is infallible. I could not accept that, however.
Mccoy said: So you tested the programme bank.
Spock said: Exactly. I programmed it myself for chess some months ago. The best I should have been able to attain was a draw.
Mccoy said: Well, why are you just sitting there?
Spock said: Transporter room, stand by. We're beaming down.
Scene: Courtroom.
Stone said: Court is now in session. The board will entertain motions before delivering its verdict. Counsel for the prosecution?
Shaw said: Sir, the prosecution rests.
Stone said: Counsel for the defence?
Cogley said: Sir, the defence rests.
McCoy and Spock run in and whisper to Kirk and Cogley
Stone said: Mister Cogley. Mister Cogley!
Cogley said: Sir, some new evidence has just been brought to my attention. I'd like to ask the court to
Shaw said: Objection! Counsel for the defence has rested his case.
Stone said: Of what nature is this evidence?
Cogley said: I can't tell you, I'll have to show you.
Shaw said: Mister Cogley is well-known for his theatrics.
Cogley said: Is saving an innocent man's career a theatric? i
Stone said: Counsels will kindly direct their remarks to the bench.
Cogley said: I'd be delighted to, sir, now that I've got something human to talk about. Rights, sir, human rights. The Bible, the Code of Hammurabi and of Justinian, Magna Carta, the Constitution of the United States, Fundamental Declarations of the Martian colonies, the Statutes of Alpha Three. Gentlemen, these documents all speak of rights. Rights of the accused to a trial by his peers, to be represented by counsel, the rights of cross-examination, but most importantly, the right to be confronted by the witnesses against him, a right to which my client has been denied.
Shaw said: Your Honour, that is ridiculous. We produced the witnesses in court. My learned opponent had the opportunity to see them, cross-examine them.
Cogley said: All but one. The most devastating witness against my client is not a human being. It's a machine, an information system. The computer log of the Enterprise. Can ask this court adjourn and reconvene aboard that vessel.
Shaw said: I protest, Your Honour.
Cogley said: And I repeat, I speak of rights. A machine has none. A man must. My client has the right to face his accuser, and if you do not grant him that right, you have brought us down to the level of the machine. Indeed, you have elevated that machine above us. I ask that my motion be granted, and more than that, gentlemen. In the name of humanity, fading in the shadow of the machine, I demand it. I demand it!
Captain's Log, Stardate 2950.1. After due consideration, the general court-martial has reconvened on board the Enterprise.
Scene: Briefing room.
Cogley said: How many games of chess did you win from the computer, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Five in all.
Cogley said: May that be considered unusual?
Spock said: Affirmative.
Cogley said: Why?
Spock said: I personally programmed the computer for chess months ago. I gave the machine an understanding of the game equal to my own. The computer cannot make an error and assuming that I do not either, the best that could normally be hoped for would be stalemate after stalemate, and yet I beat the machine five times. Someone, either accidentally or deliberately, adjusted the programming and therefore the memory banks of that computer.
Cogley said: Could that have had an effect on the visual playback we saw?
Shaw said: Object! The witness would be making a conclusion.
Stone said: Sustained.
Cogley said: Hypothetically, Mister Spock. Hypothetically, Miss Shaw. If what you suggest had been done, it would be beyond the capabilities of most men. Is that true?
Spock said: Affirmative.
Cogley said: What man aboard ship would it not be beyond?
Spock said: The Captain, myself, and the records officer.
Cogley said: And at the moment, you have no records officer.
Spock said: Affirmative. Until he was lost, our records officer was Lieutenant Commander Finney.
Cogley said: Captain Kirk, will you tell the steps you took to find Mister Finney after the storm?
Kirk said: I instituted a phase one search.
Cogley said: Describe a phase one search.
Kirk said: It's a painstaking, thorough attempt in and around the ship to find a man who's presumably injured and unable to respond.
Cogley said: It presupposes, does it not, that a man wishes to be found?
Kirk said: I beg your pardon?
Cogley said: If you start a search for a man, you assume, don't you, that he wants to be found? He's not hiding?
Kirk said: Yes.
Cogley said: On a ship of this size, could a man evade such a search?
Kirk said: Possibly.
Cogley said: Gentlemen, I submit to you that Lieutenant Commander Ben Finney is not dead.
Scene: Bridge.
Stone said: Mister Cogley, we are waiting for proof of the extraordinary statement you made in the briefing room.
Cogley said: You shall have it, but first I need the co-operation of this court in conducting an experiment. Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Gentlemen, for the purposes of this experiment, it'll be necessary for all personnel, except for members of the court and the command crew, to leave the ship. I am ordering all others to report to the transporter room.
Cogley said: Including myself, sir.
Stone said: This court is by no means adjourned, Mister Cogley.
Cogley said: I have an errand ashore of vital importance to the purpose of this court, and I will return.
Stone said: Very well.
Cogley said: Thank you, sir.
Leaves with the spare crew members.
Stone said: Captain, are you maintaining an engine crew aboard?
Kirk said: Our impulse engines have been shut down. We'll maintain orbit by momentum.
Krasnovsky said: And when the orbit decays?
Kirk said: We hope to be finished long before that.
A little later
Kirk said: Ready, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Affirmative, Captain.
Kirk said: Gentlemen, this computer has an auditory sensor. It can, in effect, hear sounds. By installing a booster, we can increase that capability on the order of one to the fourth power. The computer should bring us every sound occurring on the ship.
Crewman said: All personnel have left the ship as ordered, sir.
Kirk said: Doctor McCoy? All right, Mister Spock.
A cacophony of heartbeats comes over the bridge speakers.
Kirk said: Turn it down a little. Gentlemen, that sound is caused by the heartbeats of all the people on board the ship. Doctor McCoy will use this white sound device to mask out each person's heartbeat so that it will be eliminated from the sounds we are hearing.
Mccoy said: First, the Captain. Mister Spock.
He goes around the assembled group one at a time
Mccoy said: And lastly, myself.
Kirk said: That's all of us, except for crewman in the transporter room. Mister Spock, eliminate his heartbeat. That accounts for everyone.
But still one heart beats over the speakers.
Stone said: Finney.
KIRK; Localise that.
Spock said: B deck, in or near Engineering.
Kirk said: Seal off B deck, sections 18Y through 23D.
Spock said: Acknowledged.;
Stone said: So Finney is alive.
Kirk said: It would seem so. Commodore, this is my problem. I'd appreciate it if no one left the bridge.
Scene: Corridor.
Armed with a phaser, Kirk makes his way alone.
Kirk said: Sam Cogley had gone a shore to bring Jamie Finney on board. We felt Jamie's presence would make Finney easier to handle in the event Finney really were alive.
Kirk said: Ben.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Ben Finney.
Hanson said: Mister Spock, encountering variants.
Spock said: Compensate.
Shaw said: What does that mean?
Stone said: The orbit is beginning to decay.
Scene: Engineering.
Kirk said: Ben, where are you?
Finney said: Hello, Captain!
Scene: Bridge.
Finney said: Nothing to say
Scene: Engineering.
Finney said: Captain?
Kirk said: I'm glad you're alive.
Finney said: You mean you're relieved because you think your career is saved. Well, you're wrong.
Kirk said: Ben! Ben, it's not too late. We can help you.
Finney said: Like you helped me all along? Kept me down
Scene: Bridge.
Finney said: Robbed me of my own command?
Scene: Engineering.
Finney said: I'm a good officer, as good as you. I've watched you for years. The great Captain Kirk.
We finally see the man, as he jabs a phaser into Kirk's back
Finney said: They told you to do it to me. You all conspired against me. You ruined me, but you won't do it anymore.
He disarms Kirk and throws the weapon away. Kirk turns to face him.
Kirk said: Put the phaser down, Ben.
Finney said: Oh, I wouldn't kill you, Captain. Your own death would mean too little to you, But your ship
Kirk said: What about my ship?
Finney said: It's dead. I've killed it. I tapped out your primary energy circuits.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, what's our orbit status?
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Decaying, Captain.
Hanson said: Variants at second level
Scene: Engineering.
Hanson said: Depreciating unusually fast.
Finney said: You're out of power. I know the ship, too. The Enterprise should've been mine. You kept me from it.
Kirk said: Ben. Why kill innocent people?
Finney said: Innocent? Officers and gentlemen, Captains all. Except for Finney and his one mistake. A long time ago, but they don't forget.
Kirk said: I logged the mistake, Ben. Blame me, not them.
Scene: Bridge.
Finney said: But they are to blame. All of them.
Scene: Engineering.
Finney said: I was a good officer. I really was. I loved the service more than any man ever dared.
Scene: Bridge.
Hanson said: Mister Spock, we're running out of time.
Spock said: Gentlemen, if you'll please hurry to the transporter room
Stone said: Mister Spock, the court has not yet reached a verdict. We will hear this witness out.
Spock said: Very well, sir.
Scene: Engineering.
Kirk said: It's not too late. You can be helped. But if you kill those people
Finney said: Why shouldn't I? They killed me, didn't they? It's a fair trade.
Kirk said: Is Jamie included in that deal?
Finney said: What do you mean?
Kirk said: She's on board by now. Yes. She's on board.
Finney said: What? Why did you do that? Why did you bring her here? I'll kill you!
Kirk takes his opportunity to grapple with the bigger man. There's a fight in which Kirk's shirt gets torn. Finney swings at Kirk with a wrench, but finally has his lights punched out.
Kirk said: Beaten and sobbing, Finney told me where he had sabotaged the prime energy circuits.
Scene: Jefferies tube.
Kirk said: The damage he'd caused was considerable, but not irreparable. With luck, I would be able to effect repairs before our orbit decayed completely.
For repairs, read pulling cables out of junction boxes.
Scene: Bridge.
Hanson said: Power returning, Mister Spock. Up fourteen points and rising.
Spock said: Activate port impulse engines. One third power.
Uhura takes navigation
Hanson said: One third power.
Uhura said: Variants fading.
Hanson said: Orbit stabilising.
Uhura said: All secure, sir.
Stone said: Unless the prosecution has an objection, I rule this court to be dismissed.
Shaw said: Absolutely no objection, sir.
Later, Kirk is in a fresh new shirt, and talking quietly to Areel in front of the turbolift doors. Around them it is business as usual.
Shaw said: How long will it be this time before I see you again?
Kirk said: At the risk of sounding like a mystic, that depends on the stars.
Shaw said: Sam Cogley asked me to give you something special. It's not a first edition, just a book. Sam says that makes it special.
Kirk said: I didn't have much of a chance to thank him.
Shaw said: He's busy on a case. He's defending Ben Finney. He says he'll win.
Kirk said: I wouldn't be a bit surprised.
Shaw said: Do you think it would cause a complete breakdown of discipline if a lowly lieutenant kissed a Starship Captain on the bridge of his ship?
Kirk said: Let's try. (a gentle but lingering kiss) See? No change. Discipline goes on.
Shaw said: And so must the Enterprise. Goodbye, Jim.
Kirk said: Goodbye, Areel. Better luck next time.
Shaw said: I had pretty good luck this time. I lost, didn't l?
She leaves, blowing him a final kiss. He pulls himself together, goes to his chair and sits between two stony-faced officers.
Kirk said: She's a very good lawyer.
Spock said: Obviously.
Mccoy said: Indeed she is.