Arena
Stardate:
3045.6
Original Airdate: 19 Jan, 1967
Scene: Transporter room.
Enterprise is in orbit of a planet
Kirk said: You'll enjoy Commodore Travers. He sets a good table.
Mccoy said: I wonder if he brought his personal chef along with him to Cestus Three.
Kirk said: Probably. Rank hath its privileges.
Mccoy said: How well we both know that.
Intercom whistles
Kirk said: Scotty. Kirk here.
Travers said: Travers, Jim. We're waiting.
Kirk said: Good, Commodore. We're on our way.
Travers said: Be sure to bring along your tactical people. I've got an interesting problem for them.
Kirk said: We'll beam down immediately, Commodore. Kirk out.
Spock said: Captain. I wonder why he's insistent that our tactical aides come down.
Kirk said: This colony is isolated, exposed, out on the edge of now here. He probably wants additional advice.
Spock said: Perhaps, Captain, but nevertheless
Mccoy said: Spock, isn't it enough the commodore is famous for his hospitality? I, for one, could use a good non-reconstituted meal.
Spock said: Doctor, you are a sensualist.
Mccoy said: You bet your pointed ears I am. Ready whenever you are, Captain.
Six men, including one red shirt, get on the transporter platform
Kirk said: Energise.
Scene: Planet surface.
There is no one waiting to meet them. Instead, just razed ground and the smoke of a few fires
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise. Red alert.
Sulu said: What is it, Captain?
Kirk said: Cestus Three has been destroyed.
They take cover
Kirk said: Full alert. Tricorder readings, Mister Spock. Life detection.
Spock said: Those messages we got, Captain, the one directing us here yesterday.
Kirk said: Faked. All this happened several days ago. (to a man in a yellow shirt) Lang, over there. Look for survivors. Kelowitz, (blue shirt) that way. (to the red shirt) O'Herlihy, stick with me.
Spock said: Captain, impulses that direction. Very weak, possibly a survivor.
Kirk said: Come on, Bones.
Captain's log, Stardate 3045.6 The Enterprise has responded to a call from Earth observation outpost on Cestus Three. On landing, we have discovered that the outpost has been destroyed.
Scene: Ruins.
Mccoy said: Captain, over there.
They run to a lone survivor amongst a tangle of wreckage
Careful, careful. Shock, radiation burns, internal injuries for certain.
Mccoy said: Careful, careful. Shock, radiation burns, internal injuries for certain. He's in a bad way, Captain.
Kirk said: Keep him alive, Bones. I want to know what's been happening here.
Spock said: Getting another life reading, Captain.
Kirk said: Survivors?
Spock said: Not survivors. Not warm-blooded. Living creatures, but not human.
Kirk said: Where?
Spock said: Azimuth ninety three degrees, range one five seven zero yards.
Kirk said: O'Herlihy.
Kirk sends his security guard off to look, but he hasn't gone far before he stands up and says
O'Herlihy said: Captain, I see something.
And promptly gets hit by a beam and vanishes. There's also an incoming whistle and an explosion.
Kirk said: Cover! Kirk to Enterprise, lock on transporters. Beam us up.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Captain, we're coming under attack. Unidentified ship quartering in.
Scene: Ruins.
Sulu said: We can't beam you up. I've just rigged up defensive screens.
Kirk said: Keep those screens up. Fire all phasers.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Firing phasers, Captain. The alien has screens up, too.
Scene: Ruins.
Kirk said: Take all action necessary to protect the ship. We'll hold out here.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Are you under attack, Captain?
Scene: Ruins.
Sulu said: We could drop screens.
Kirk said: Keep those screens up. Worry about us when the ship is safe.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Kirk out.
Scene: Ruins.
More bombs rain down around them
Kirk said: If they lower those screens to beam us up, they'll be open to phaser attack.
Spock said: We're hopelessly outnumbered here, Captain. It's those disruptors versus our hand phasers.
Kirk said: We're stuck with it, Mister Spock. We'll have to make do with what we've got.
Carrying the survivor, the away team heads into better shelter - Life Support Ramp 3 Level K according to the sign
Kirk said: Kelowitz, Lang, flank out. Lay down fire on co-ordinates Mister Spock gave you. Even if you don't see them. Keep your heads down.
Lang and Kelowitz leave
Kirk said: We're helpless down here. And the Enterprise
Spock said: Sulu is an experienced combat officer.
Kirk said: It's my ship, Mister Spock. I should be there. We can't even get at them.
Spock said: Nor can they at us at the moment. Not unless they moved their original position. That intervening high ground.
Kirk said: Can you remember the layout of this place? The arsenal?
Spock said: About one hundred yards in that direction. But after an attack as thorough as this one
Kirk said: I'll risk it.
He does an heroic zigzag run amongst the incoming explosions, takes shelter behind an oil drum and calls Enterprise
Kirk said: Kirk here. Report.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Captain, are you all right?
Scene: Ruins.
Kirk said: Never mind about me. What about the ship?
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: We returned fire with all phaser banks. Negative against its deflector screen.
Scene: Ruins.
Kirk said: Arm your photon torpedoes.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Aye, aye, sir. Arm photon torpedoes. Stand by.
Scene: Ruins.
Kirk said: Any identification on the attacking vessel?
Sulu said: No, sir. Doesn't correspond with any configuration we're familiar with.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: We can't get visual contact. She's too far away.
Depaul said: Mister Sulu, photon torpedoes locked on.
Sulu said: Photon torpedoes locked on, Captain.
Scene: Ruins.
KIRK; Fire all banks.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: All banks fired, sir.
Scene: Ruins.
Kirk said: Sulu. Sulu, our communications are being interfered with. (An explosion makes him run further on into an old bomb crater) Now get this straight.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: You do anything you think necessary to protect the ship. Leave orbit, maximum warp, anything. Clear?
Sulu said: Clear, Captain, but you
Scene: Ruins.
Kirk said: Never mind about me. Protect my ship!
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Yes, sir. Photon torpedoes negative, Captain. I'm warping out of orbit.
Scene: Ruins.
Kirk said: Good. Contact me when you can. Kirk out.
Kirk ducks into a building. Meanwhile, back over at Ramp 3
Spock said: How is he, Doctor?
Mccoy said: He'll be dead in half an hour if we don't get him some decent care.
Spock said: They're moving. I've got to get to the Captain.
He joins Kirk in the bomb crater, where a grenade launcher is being set up
Spock said: Locked on to the enemy, Captain. They're moving toward the high ground. (fizzing sound and smoke) They've locked on to my tricorder.
He throws it away and it goes bang
Spock said: Very ingenious. They fed back my own impulses and built up an overload.
Kirk said: We'll see how ingenious they are. Here, give me a hand with this grenade launcher. Lang!
Spock said: Any word from the Enterprise?
Kirk said: Sulu's taken her out of orbit.
Kelowitz said: They got Lang, sir.
Kirk said: Did you see them?
Kelowitz said: No, sir.
Kirk said: An evaluation, Mister Kelowitz. Where do you think they are?
Kelowitz said: If I were them, I'd go to the high ground on the right. I make it twelve hundred yards, azimuth eighty seven. It's pretty close for one of these little jewels, Captain.
Kirk said: It'll be a lot closer to them. Stand clear.
He drops a blue ball into the launcher, it zooms off and there is a blinding flash and bang. Silence reigns until Kirk's communicator beeps.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Sulu said: Captain, the alien's withdrawing. She's at extreme range, but our sensors indicate she just activated her transporters.
Kirk said: Lock on to the alien, Mister Sulu. I don't want to lose her.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Aye, aye, sir. Our screens are down. We can beam you up now, sir.
Scene: Ruins.
Kirk said: I want a search party of thirty medical personnel beamed down immediately to search for survivors. Notify the transporter room. Lock onto us. We're beaming up.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Aye, aye, sir.
Captain's log, supplement. We have beamed back to the Enterprise and immediately set out in pursuit of the alien vessel. It appears to be headed toward a largely unexplored section of the galaxy.
Scene: Sickbay.
Kirk said: Can you tell me what happened?
Man said: Scanners reported a ship approaching. We get them now and then. They're all welcome to use our facilities. You know that.
Kirk said: Yes, I know.
Man said: They came in space normal speed, using our regular approach route, but they knocked out our phaser batteries with their first salvo. From then on we were helpless. We weren't expecting anything! Why should we? We didn't have anything anyone would want.
Kirk said: Easy. Easy.
Man said: They poured it on, like, like phasers, only worse, whatever they were using. I tried to signal them. We called up. Tried to surrender. We had women and children. I told them that! I begged them! They wouldn't listen. They didn't let up for a moment.
Kirk said: Lieutenant, the Enterprise received two messages, ostensibly from Cestus Three. One for the Enterprise to go there, and the other for myself and my tactical crew to beam down to the surface.
Man said: They hit us a full day before you got there, Captain. No messages came from us, Captain. Why did they do it? Why? Why did they do it? There has to be a reason. There has to be a reason!
Scene: Captain's quarters.
Kirk said: It was a trap. Getting the Enterprise to come to Cestus Three, getting us and our whole crew to come ashore.
Spock said: Very clever. As to the reason?
Kirk said: The reason is crystal clear. The Enterprise is the only protection in this section of the Federation. Destroy the Enterprise, and everything is wide open.
Spock said: You allude to invasion, Captain, yet positive proof
Kirk said: I have all the proof I need on Cestus Three.
Spock said: Not necessarily, sir. Several possible explanations
Kirk said: How can you explain a massacre like that? No, Mister Spock. The threat is clear and immediate. Invasion.
Spock said: Very well, then. If that's the case, you must make certain that the alien vessel never reaches its home base.
Kirk said: I intend to. If we can keep them in the dark as to our strength, they'll never dare move against us. Captain to helmsman.
Sulu said: Sulu here, sir.
Kirk said: Is the alien still making warp five?
Sulu said: Affirmative, sir.
Kirk said: Initiate warp six.
Sulu said: Affirmative, sir.
Kirk said: Overtake. Phaser banks, lock on to the enemy vessel. Stand by for firing orders. All hands, this is the Captain. We are going into battle. All hands, battle stations. Red alert. I repeat, red alert. This is no drill. This is no drill.
Captain's log, Stardate 3046.2. We are in hot pursuit of the alien vessel which destroyed the Earth outpost on Cestus Three.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Mister DePaul.
Depaul said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Position.
Depaul said: Twenty two point three parsecs beyond latest chart limit, sir.
Kirk said: All scanners lock into computer banks. I want a complete record of this. Mister Spock, what do we have on this general area?
Spock said: Virtually nothing, Captain. No records of any explorations. There are rumours of certain strange signals on subspace channels. However, none has ever been recorded.
Kirk said: Anything on intelligent life forms?
Spock said: Nothing specific, Captain. Unscientific rumours only. More like space legends.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu, status, alien vessel.
Sulu said: They must be aware we're after them, sir. They've gone to warp six also.
Kirk said: Warp factor seven.
Sulu said: Aye, aye, sir.
Kirk said: Something the matter, Mister Spock?
Spock said: A sustained warp seven speed will be dangerous, Captain.
Kirk said: Thank you, Mister Spock. I mean to catch them.
Scott said: We'll either catch them or blow up, Captain. They may be faster than we are.
Kirk said: They'll have to prove it. Yes, Mister Spock?
Spock said: You mean to destroy the alien ship, Captain?
Kirk said: Of course.
Spock said: I thought perhaps the hot pursuit alone might be sufficient. Destruction might be unnecessary.
Kirk said: Colony Cestus Three has been obliterated, Mister Spock.
Spock said: The destruction of the alien vessel will not help that colony, Jim.
Kirk said: If the aliens go unpunished, they'll be back, attacking other Federation installations.
Spock said: I merely suggested that a regard for sentient life
Kirk said: There's no time for that. It's a matter of policy. Out here, we're the only policemen around. And a crime has been committed. Do I make myself clear?
Spock said: Very clear, Captain.
Kirk said: I'm delighted, Mister Spock. Report, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Alien ship maintaining interval, Captain. Now at warp seven.
Kirk said: Warp factor eight.
Everyone looks surprised. Scotty is aghast.
Sulu said: Aye, aye, sir.
Kirk said: Captain to phaser banks. All components at battle ready. All banks primed.
Crewman said: Aft phaser to Bridge. Alert status. All weapons at operational ready.
Later, the ship has not blown up, and Sulu has a grin on his face
Sulu said: Captain.
Kirk said: Yes, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Closing on target, sir.
Kirk said: Good. Mister DePaul.
Depaul said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Our position.
Depaul said: Two two seven nine pl, sir. Uncharted solar system at two four six six pm.
Kirk said: Is it on the alien's course?
Depaul said: No, sir. He's headed away from it.
Uhura said: Captain, sensors report we're being scanned.
Kirk said: By the alien ship?
Uhura said: No, sir. It's from that solar system ahead.
Kirk said: Any interference? Resistance?
Uhura said: No, sir, Just scanning beams. It's on an unusual wave length.
Kirk said: Mister Spock?
Spock said: It would appear someone is curious about us.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu, is the alien still heading away from that solar system?
Sulu said: Yes, sir. We're closing, sir.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura, anything further on those scanning beams?
Uhura said: There's no hostility, sir. They're not tractors or weapons of any sort, Just increasing in intensity. Steady. Regular. It's growing stronger, sir.
Sulu said: Captain!
Kirk said: Yes, what is it?
Sulu said: The alien. It's slowing down. Warp five, four, two. It's going sublight, sir. Sir? It's stopped dead in space.
Kirk said: He may be turning to fight.
Sulu said: No, sir. They're just dead out there.
Kirk said: Are you sure?
Sulu said: Yes, sir. Unmoving.
Kirk said: Then we've got them. Go to Red Alert. Prepare to fire phaser banks. Sensors, lock on. Mister Sulu, continue closing. Mister Spock, lock phasers into computer. Computers will control attack.
Spock said: Computer lock ready, Captain. All systems standing by.
Sulu said: Range is one eight one zero. One seven six zero. Range is one seven zero zero. One six four zero. Range is one five nine zero. One five five zero and closing, sir.
Suddenly, the ship decelerates, and everyone hangs on to something as the lights dim. SULU: Warp six, warp five, four, warp three, warp one. Sublight, Captain. We're stuck, Captain. It's impossible, but. It's impossible.
Kirk said: From warp eight? Have you lost your mind?
Spock said: Same as the alien, Captain.
Kirk said: Mister Scott, report.
Scott said: We're dead, Captain. Locked up. Frozen tight. All propulsion systems read zero.
KIRK; Life systems?
Scott said: They're all normal, sir. Atmosphere, heat, light. No variance.
Kirk said: Phaser banks. Report.
Crewman said: We're all inoperative here, Captain. No power at all. No faulty circuits I can find. Just no power.
Kirk said: Damage Control, report.
Spock said: All systems report normal, Captain. No ascertainable damage.
KIRK; Then what is it?
Scott said: I don't know, sir, but whatever it is, we canna move.
Spock said: We're being held in place, Captain, apparently from that solar system.
KIRK; This far out? That's impossible.
Spock said: We are being held.
Kirk said: Tractor beam?
Spock said: No, sir. An unidentifiable power.
The lights flicker and the viewscreen goes psychedelic.
Metron said: We are the Metrons. You are one of two crafts which have come into our space on a mission of violence. This is not permissible. Yet we have analysed you and have learned that your violent tendencies are inherent. So be it. We will control them. We will resolve your conflict in the way most suited to your limited mentalities. Captain James Kirk.
Kirk said: This is Kirk.
Metron said: We have prepared a planet with a suitable atmosphere. You will be taken there, as will the Captain of the Gorn ship which you have been pursuing. There you will settle your dispute.
Kirk said: I don't understand.
Metron said: You will be provided with a recording-translating device, in hopes that a chronicle of this contest will serve to dissuade others of your kind from entering our system, but you will not be permitted to communicate with your ship. You will each be totally alone.
Kirk said: What makes you think you can interfere with
Metron said: It is you who are interfering. We are simply putting a stop to it. The place we have prepared for you contains sufficient elements for either of you to construct weapons lethal enough to destroy the other, which seems to be your intention. The winner of the contest will be permitted to go his way unharmed. The loser, along with his ship, shall be destroyed in the interests of peace. The contest will be one of ingenuity against ingenuity, brute strength against brute strength. The results will be final.
Kirk said: Just a minute
Metron said: There will be no discussion. It is done.
Kirk vanishes, and Uhura screams
Sulu said: He's gone.
Scene: Planet surface.
A dinosaur- like being with multifaceted eyes and a multicoloured tunic greets us with a roar. Kirk is now wearing a belt with the recorder/translator on it
Kirk said: The Enterprise is dead in space, stopped cold during her pursuit of an alien raider by mysterious forces, and I have been somehow whisked off the bridge and placed on the surface of an asteroid, facing the Captain of the alien ship. Weaponless, I face the creature the Metrons called a Gorn. Large, reptilian. Like most humans, I seem to have an instinctive revulsion to reptiles. I must fight to remember that this is an intelligent, highly advanced individual, the Captain of a starship, like myself, undoubtedly a dangerously clever opponent.
The Gorn breaks a branch of a tree with great ease. Kirk struggles to break off a twig. Their first physical engagement is uneven. Kirk is more agile than the reptile but nowhere near as strong. He boxes the Gorn's ears to get out of a bear-hug and runs up into the rocks looking for weapons. He throws a heavy rock at the Gorn, but it just bounces off his chest. When a boulder gets flung at him in return, Kirk retreats. Quickly.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock goes over to the Engineering Station
Spock said: Have you tried overload?
Scott said: Aye, sir. It does no good.
Spock said: How about bypassing the transformer banks? Feed the impulse engines directly.
Scott said: I tried that, sir. Nothing.
Spock said: Lieutenant Uhura, have sensors learned anything about the nature of the force which holds us here?
Uhura said: No, sir. They report they definitely emanate from that solar system ahead.
Spock said: No indication of its composition? Gravimetric? Magnetic? Electronic?
Uhura said: Nothing, sir.
Scene: Planet surface.
Standing on rocks, silhouetted against a clear blue sky, Kirk makes an entry on his recorder for posterity.
Kirk said: This is Captain James Kirk of the Starship Enterprise. Who ever finds this please get it to Starfleet Command. I'm engaged in personal combat with a creature apparently called a Gorn.
We see that the recording is also being transmitted and translated by the Gorn's device too
Kirk said: He's immensely strong. Already he has withstood attacks from me that would have killed a human being. Fortunately, though strong, he is not agile. The agility and, I hope, the cleverness, is mine.
Back on the rock
Kirk said: The Metrons, the creatures that sent us both here, said that the surface of the planet provides the raw material to construct weapons. There's very little here. Scrub brush, rocks, an abundance of mineral deposits, but no weapons in the conventional sense. Still, I need to find one. Bare-handed against the Gorn, I have no chance.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Leave channel one open, Lieutenant, just in case.
Uhura said: Aye, aye, sir.
Mccoy said: What are you going to do, Mister Spock?
Spock said: I'm going to wait, Doctor. There's little else I can do.
Mccoy said: What about the Captain?
Spock said: If I could help him, I would. I cannot.
Mccoy said: Now, you're the one that's always talking about logic. What about some logic now? Where's the Captain, Mister Spock?
Spock said: He's out there, Doctor. Out there somewhere in a thousand cubic parsecs of space, and there's absolutely nothing we can do to help him.
Scene: Planet surface.
Running up a slope, Kirk comes across a clump of mature bamboo. Good, solid, hollow stems, but he doesn't regard them as suitable clubs. He carries on gaining height. Meanwhile, the Gorn is using trailing vines to construct something. Kirk comes across an outcrop of minerals, and decides to tell us what they are.
Kirk said: A large deposit of diamonds on the surface. Perhaps the hardest substance known in the universe. Beautifully crystallized and pointed, but too small to be useful as a weapon. An incredible fortune in stones yet I would trade them all for a hand phaser, or a good solid club. Yet the Metrons said there would be weapons, if I could find them. Where? What kind?
(From his vantage point on the ridge, Kirk watches the Gorn at work, then spots a lone rock neatly balanced on a pinnacle above his adversary. He pushes it over, the Gorn looks up, then we get the cloud of dust and a view of the reptile under the rock, lying still. Confident, Kirk comes down to check on his kill, just in time to see the Gorn move, grasp his stone dagger, and get up again. The rock continues on its way down the slope. The mammal runs away, straight into reptiles trap of vines and rocks. Now Kirk is pinned under a boulder, and at his enemy's mercy.
But the Gorn has to move the boulder to be able to stab him, so once again Kirk is able to dodge away, albeit with a limp.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: This is the U.S.S. Enterprise calling the Metrons. Our channels are open. Come in, please. We urgently desire a conference. Please answer.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk hobbles up to a rock face with bright yellow powder spread across it, and takes a rest. We keep cutting to the Gorn, who can hear everything he says, remember.
Kirk said: This may be my last entry. I am almost exhausted. Unless I find the weapon the Metron mentioned I have very little time left. Native sulphur, diamonds. This place is a mineralogist's dream. Yet there is something about sulphur. Something very old. Something? If only I could remember.
The Gorn's roar comes closer, and he moves on
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: The ship, our engines, our weapons. It's just inconceivable that we are immobilised.
Spock said: But it has happened, Doctor.
Dimmed lights and swirly viewscreen again
Metron said: We are the Metrons. Your Captain is losing his battle. We would suggest you make whatever memorial arrangements, if any, which are customary in your culture. We believe you have very little time left.
Mccoy said: We appeal to you in the name of civilisation. Put a stop to this.
Metron said: Your violent intent and actions demonstrate that you are not civilised. However, we are not without compassion. It is possible you may have feelings toward your Captain. So that you will be able to prepare yourself, we will allow you to see and hear what is now transpiring.
There on the viewscreen is their first sight of a Gorn, then Kirk and yet another mineral deposit.
Mccoy said: If there were only some way we could contact him.
Spock said: Yes, indeed, Doctor, if only there were. Notice the substance encrusting that rock. Yes. Unless I'm mistaken, it's potassium nitrate.
Mccoy said: So?
Spock said: Perhaps nothing, Doctor. (Kirk tastes the mineral and spits it out) Perhaps everything.
The bridge crew watch as enlightenment dawns and Kirk goes off in search of his other mineral discoveries. GORN [OC]: Earthling! Captain!
Kirk said: Who is this, the Metron?
Gorn said: This is your opponent, Earthling. I have heard every word you have said.
Kirk said: All right. What do you want?
Gorn said: I'm weary of the chase. Wait for me. I shall be merciful and quick.
Kirk said: Like you were at Cestus Three?
Gorn said: You were intruding! You established an outpost in our space.
Kirk said: You butchered helpless human beings
Gorn said: We destroyed invaders, as I shall destroy you!
Mccoy said: Can that be true? Was Cestus Three an intrusion on their space?
Spock said: It may well be possible, Doctor. We know very little about that section of the galaxy.
Mccoy said: Then we could be in the wrong.
Spock said: Perhaps. That is something best decided by diplomats.
Mccoy said: The Gorn simply might have been trying to protect themselves.
Spock said: Yes.
They watch as Kirk returns to the bamboo clump and picks out a short, wide stem.
Spock said: Fascinating. Good. Good. (Kirk cuts vines to length against a rock) He knows, Doctor. He has reasoned it out.
Potassium nitrate gets shoveled into the bamboo
Spock said: Yes. Yes.
Mccoy said: What is it, Spock?
SPOCK; An invention, Doctor. First potassium nitrate, and now if he can find some sulphur and a charcoal deposit or ordinary coal.
Kirk is at the outcrop of sharp diamonds, and putting them into the bamboo too.
Mccoy said: What's he doing?
SPOCK; Diamonds. The hardest known substance. Impelled by sufficient force, they would make formidable projectiles.
Mccoy said: What force?
Spock said: Recall your basic chemistry, Doctor. Gunpowder.
Gorn said: Captain, let us be reasonable.
Gorn said: You have lost. Admit it to yourself. Stop running.
Now the sulphur goes into the cannon, and finally he finds a vein on coal.
SPOCK; Coal.
Now Kirk settles down to empty the bamboo, crush the coal, make a hole in the bamboo for a fuse and then mix his ingredients a little more precisely.
Mccoy said: Can he do it?
Spock said: If he has the time, Doctor. If he has the time.
The cannon is strengthened with the vine tied around it, and the gunpowder gets rammed home with a small branch. Finally the diamonds go in, and a piece of torn trouser will serve as a fuse, once he can raise a spark from a stone and the translating device. Fire is created as the Gorn approaches him from behind. Seeing the danger, he braces the cannon and fires it. The explosion blows the bamboo apart, and also incapacitates his opponent. Kirk picks up his fallen stone dagger and puts the point to the Gorn's windpipe, but cannot administer the coup de grace.
Kirk said: No. No, I won't kill you. Maybe you thought you were protecting yourself when you attacked the outpost.
He throws the dagger away, stands up and shouts to the sky
Kirk said: No, I won't kill him! Do you hear? You'll have to get your entertainment someplace else!
The Gorn disappears, and a young blond boy in a white shift appears instead.
Kirk said: You're a Metron?
Metron said: Does my appearance surprise you, Captain?
Kirk said: You seem more like a boy.
Metron said: I am approximately fifteen hundred of your Earth years old. You surprise me, Captain.
Kirk said: How?
Metron said: By sparing your helpless enemy who surely would have destroyed you, you demonstrated the advanced trait of mercy, something we hardly expected. We feel there may be hope for your kind. Therefore, you will not be destroyed. It would not be civilised.
Kirk said: What happened to the Gorn?
Gorn said: I sent him back to his ship. If you like, I shall destroy him for you.
Kirk said: No. That won't be necessary. We can talk. Maybe reach an agreement.
Metron said: Very good, Captain. There is hope for you. Perhaps in several thousand years, your people and mine shall meet to reach an agreement. You are still half savage, but there is hope. We will contact you when we are ready.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk suddenly appears in front of the crew, who all leap to their feet.
Uhura said: Captain! Are you all right?
Kirk said: I don't know. I don't know. All right, everybody. Back to your posts. Let's get out of here.
He takes his seat.
Sulu said: Captain.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: It's impossible, but there's Sirius over there when it should be here. And Canopus. And Arcanis. We're. All of a sudden, we're clear across the galaxy, five hundred parsecs from where we are I mean, were. I mean
Kirk said: Don't try and figure it out, Mister Sulu. Just plot a course for us back to Cestus Three.
Sulu said: Aye, aye, sir.
McCoy leaves
Spock said: After you touched off your primitive cannon, Captain, we lost the picture the Metron was sending us.
KIRK; You saw what happened down there?
Spock said: Most of it. I would be interested in knowing what finally happened.
Kirk said: We're a most promising species, Mister Spock, as predators go. Did you know that?
Spock said: I've frequently had my doubts.
Kirk said: I don't. Not anymore. And maybe in a thousand years or so, we'll be able to prove it. Never mind, Mister Spock. It doesn't make much sense to me either. Take us back to where we're supposed to be, Mister Sulu. Warp factor one.
Sulu said: Warp factor one.
Spock said: A thousand years, Captain?
Well, that gives us a little time.