The Galileo Seven
Stardate: 2821.5
Original Airdate: 5 Jan, 1967
Captain's Log, stardate 2821.5. On route to Makus Three with a cargo of medical supplies. Our course leads us past Murasaki 312, a quasar-like formation, vague, undefined. A priceless opportunity for scientific investigation. On board is Galactic High Commissioner Ferris, overseeing the deliver of the medicines to Makus Three.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Captain to shuttlecraft Galileo. Stand by, Mister Spock.
Ferris said: I remind you, Captain, I'm entirely opposed to this delay. Your mission is to get those emergency medical supplies to Makus Three in time for their transfer to the New Paris colonies.
Kirk said: No problem, Commissioner. And may I remind you that I have standing orders to investigate all quasars and quasar-like phenomena wherever they may be encountered. Besides, it's three days to Makus. And the rendezvous doesn't take place for five.
Ferris said: I don't like to take chances. The plague is out of control on New Paris. We must get those drugs there on time.
Kirk said: No problem. Captain to Galileo. All systems cleared for take off.
Scene: Shuttlecraft.
The NCC1701/7 is in the hangar bay preparing to launch.
Spock said: Power up. All instruments activated. All readings normal. All go.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Launch shuttlecraft.
The curved doors at the stern of the engineering deck open, and the little vessel heads out into space
Scene: Shuttlecraft.
Mears said: Readings normal. Acceleration normal. Phase one separation normal.
Spock said: Position?
Latimer said: Three point seven. Sir, I
Spock said: Make up your mind please, Mister Latimer.
Latimer said: Sir, this indicator's gone crazy.
Boma said: That's to be expected, Mister Spock. Quasars are extremely disruptive. Just how much, we don't know.
Spock said: Considerably, Mister Boma.
Mears said: Mister Spock, radiation is increasing.
Spock said: Stop forward momentum, Mister Latimer.
Latimer said: I can't, sir. Nothing happens.
Spock said: Galileo to Enterprise. Galileo to Enterprise. Come in, please.
Boma said: Ionic interference, Mister Spock.
Mccoy said: We're being drawn right into it.
Spock said: Galileo to Enterprise. Galileo to Enterprise. We are out of control, being pulled directly into the heart of Murasaki three one two. Being hit by violent radiation on outer hull. Course three point two five
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Anything at all?
Uhura said: Nothing clear, Captain. Just a few words about being pulled off course.
Kirk said: Try and get me a fix on the Galileo.
Sulu said: Scanners are blank, Captain. We're getting a mass of readings I've never seen. Nothing makes sense.
Kirk switches on Spock's science computer
Computer said: Negative ionic concentration one point six four times ten to the ninth power metres, Radiation wave length three hundred seventy angstroms. Harmonics upward along entire spectrum.
Ferris said: What is it, Captain?
Kirk said: That thing out there has ionized this complete sector. None of our instruments work. At least four complete solar systems in the immediate vicinity. And out there somewhere, a twenty four foot shuttlecraft, off course, out of control. Finding a needle in a haystack would be child's play.
Captain's Log, stardate 2821.7. The electromagnetic phenomenon known as Murasaki Three Twelve whirls like some angry blight in space, a depressive reminder that seven shipmates still have not been heard from. Equally bad, the effect has rendered our normal searching systems useless. Without them, we are blind and almost helpless.
Scene: Bridge.
A Yeoman is delivering cups of coffee
Ferris said: I was opposed to this from the very beginning. Our flight to Makus Three is of the very highest priority.
Kirk said: I'm aware of that, Commissioner. At the same time I have certain scientific duties I must perform, and investigating the Murasaki effect is one.
Ferris said: Yes, but you've lost your crew.
Kirk said: We have two days to find them.
Ferris said: Two days? ln all that? Two days?
Kirk said: What would you have me do, turn around and leave them there?
Ferris said: You shouldn't have sent them out in the first place.
Uhura said: Captain, there's one planet in this solar system capable of sustaining human life. It's type M, oxygen, nitrogen, and it's listed as Taurus Two. It's unexplored. As far as we can determine with our equipment malfunction, it's just about dead-centre of the Murasaki effect.
Kirk said: Thank you, Lieutenant. Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Set course for Taurus Two.
Sulu said: Aye, aye, sir.
Scene: Shuttlecraft.
Shuttlecraft Galileo appears to have landed in one piece in a rocky landscape. It's contents have been rather shaken about and many are holding their heads.
Mccoy said: You all right?
Gaetano said: (Holding his right wrist) Yes.
Mccoy said: Scotty? Boma?
Boma said: Now that's what I call a ride.
Mccoy said: Yeoman?
Mears said: Yes. I just got a little bump on the head.
Mccoy said: (helping her back into her seat) Upsy-daisy.
Mears said: Thank you.
Mccoy said: What happened?
Boma said: I can't be sure, but I'd say that, the magnetic potential of the effect was (McCoy gives him a tissue for his nose bleed) Thank you. Was such that, as we gathered speed, it was multiplied geometrically. And we were simply shot into the centre of the effect. Like a projectile.
Spock said: I'd say your evaluation is reasonable, Mister Boma.
Scott said: What a mess.
Spock said: Picturesque descriptions will not mend broken circuits, Mister Scott. I think you'll find your work is cut out for you. Galileo to Enterprise. Galileo to Enterprise. Come in, please.
Scott said: You don't really expect to get an answer, do you?
Spock said: I expect nothing, Mister Scott. It is merely logical to try all the alternatives. Doctor McCoy, a reading on the atmosphere, please.
Mccoy said: Partial pressure of oxygen, seventy millimetres of mercury. Nitrogen one forty. Breathable, if you're not running in competition.
Spock said: Just the facts, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Traces of argon, neon, krypton, all in acceptable quantities. However, I wouldn't recommend this place as a summer resort.
Spock said: Thank you for your opinion. It will be duly noted. You're recording this, Yeoman?
Mears said: Of course, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Mister Scott, if you'll make a survey of the damage, please.
Scott said: Logical.
Spock said: Gentlemen, I think we should move outside, make room for Mister Scott to do his work. Mister Latimer, Mister Gaetano, you'll arm yourselves and scout out the area, keeping in visual contact with the ship.
Latimer said: Aye, aye, sir.
The two men go outside, and the doors close behind them
Mccoy said: What do you think our chances are of contacting the Enterprise?
Spock said: Under present conditions, extremely poor.
Mccoy said: But they'll be looking for us.
Spock said: If the ionisation effect is as widespread as I believe it is, Doctor, they'll be searching for us without instrumentation, by visual contact only. On those terms, this is a very large planet.
Mccoy said: Then you don't think they'll find us.
Spock said: Not as long as we're grounded. We may be here for a very long time, Doctor.
Scene: Bridge.
Enterprise is orbiting a sickly green swirled planet, and Commissioner Ferris is lounging by the door, watching Uhura working.
Uhura said: Nothing, Captain.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Yes, Captain?
Kirk said: Anything on your scanners?
Sulu said: Totally inoperative, sir. No readings at all.
Kirk said: Have you tried tying in to the auxiliary power?
Sulu said: Yes, sir. No change.
Kirk said: Transport room, this is the captain speaking. Are the transporters beaming up yet?
Chief said: Not one hundred percent, Captain. We beamed down some inert material, but it came back in a disassociated condition. We wouldn't dare try with people.
Kirk said: Thank you. This is the captain speaking. Flight deck, prepare Columbus for immediate exit, for a search of the planet surface. Correlate co-ordinates with Mister Sulu. Thank you. Anything, Uhura?
Uhura said: All wavelengths dominated by ionisation effects, sir. Transmission is blocked, reception impossible.
Ferris said: Well, Captain?
Kirk said: We have until 2823.8 to continue the search, Commissioner.
Ferris said: You don't really think you'll have any luck, do you?
Kirk said: Look, these people are my friends and my shipmates. I intend to continue the ship's search for them until the last possible moment.
Ferris said: Very well, Captain, but not one second beyond that moment. Is that clear? If it isn't, I suggest you look at book nineteen, section four thirty three, paragraph twelve.
Kirk said: I'm familiar with the regulations, Commissioner. I know all about your authority. Launch shuttlecraft Columbus.
Scene: Outside the shuttlecraft.
Spock is scanning one of it's small nacelles when McCoy comes out to join him.
Mccoy said: Well, I can't say much for the circumstances, but at least it's your big chance.
Spock said: My big chance? For what, Doctor?
Mccoy said: Command. Oh, I know you, Mister Spock. You've never voiced it, but you've always thought that logic was the best basis on which to build command. Am I right?
Spock said: I am a logical man, Doctor.
Mccoy said: It'll take more than logic to get us out of this.
Spock said: Perhaps, Doctor, but I know of no better way to begin. I realise command does have its fascinations, even under circumstances such as these. But I neither enjoy the idea of command, nor am I frightened of it. It simply exists. And I will do whatever logically needs to be done. Excuse me.
he heads back inside
Scene: Shuttlecraft.
Scott said: Very bad, Mister Spock.
Spock said: In what way?
Scott said: We've lost a great deal of fuel. We have no chance at all to reach escape velocity. And if we ever hope to make orbit, we'll have to lighten our load by at least five hundred pounds.
Spock said: The weight of three grown men.
Scott said: Aye, you could put it that way.
Mccoy said: Or the equivalent weight in equipment.
Spock said: Doctor McCoy, with very few exceptions we use virtually every piece of equipment aboard this craft in attaining orbit. There's very little excess weight, except among the passengers.
Boma said: You mean three of us must stay behind.
Spock said: Unless the situation changes radically, yes.
Boma said: And who's to choose?
Spock said: As commanding officer, the choice will be mine.
Boma said: You wouldn't be interested in drawing lots?
Spock said: A very quaint idea, Mister Boma, but I do believe I'm better qualified to make the selection than any random drawing of lots.
Boma said: All right, Mister Spock. Who?
Spock said: My choice will be a logical one, arrived at through logical means.
Mccoy said: Mister Spock, life and death are seldom logical.
Spock said: But attaining a desired goal always is, Doctor. Now gentlemen, I suggest we move outside to make a further examination of the hull in the event we've overlooked any minor damage.
Spock leaves
Boma said: If any minor damage was overlooked, it was when they put his head together.
Mccoy said: Not his head, Mister Boma, his heart. His heart.
Scene: Rocky ledge.
Latimer and Gaetano are investigating a strange scraping sound, but the mist is obscuring their vision.
Latimer said: What is it?
Gaetano said: II don't know. It's from up there.
Latimer said: No, it's from back there.
Gaetano said: It's everywhere. It's all around us!
Latimer said: Let's get out of here.
They go to the top of the ridge, and Latimer stands up. Someone throws a large flint-tipped spear into his back, and he falls. The scream is heard back at the shuttlecraft
Scene: Outside shuttlecraft.
Spock said: Come on, Boma.
Scene: Bottom of the ledge.
Gaetano fires his phaser at several different enemies. The spear in Latimer's back is taller than a man
Spock said: What was it?
Gaetano said: It was something huge, terrible. Up there. I think I hit it.
Boma said: Did you see what it was?
Gaetano said: Vaguely. It was like a giant ape.
Boma said: Poor Latimer.
Gaetano said: At least it was quick for him.
Boma said: We'll get off all right.
Spock said: (returns from investigating) Nothing there.
Gaetano said: I tell you there was.
Spock said: I don't doubt your word.
Gaetano said: But there must be something. I swear I hit it.
Spock said: (pulling the bloody spear from Latimer's body and examining it) Folsom Point.
Boma said: Sir?
Spock said: There's a remarkable resemblance to the Folsom Point discovered in 1925, old world calendar, New Mexico, North America. A bit more crude about the shaft, I believe. Not very efficient.
Boma said: Not very efficient? Is that all you have to say?
Spock said: Am I in error, Mister Boma?
Boma said: You? Error? Impossible.
Spock said: Then what, Mister Boma?
Boma said: There's a man lying there dead, and you talk about stone spears. What about Latimer?
Spock said: My concern for the dead will not bring him back to life, Mister Boma.
Gaetano said: Mister Spock. In the interest of efficiency, I don't think we should leave his body here.
Spock said: Bringing him back to the ship should not interfere with our repair efforts. If you need assistance, I
Gaetano said: We'll do it. Give me a hand with Latimer, will you?
Captain's Log, stardate 2822.3. We continue to search, but I find it more difficult each moment to ward off a sense of utter futility and great loss.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Captain, the Columbus has returned from searching quadrant seven seven nine X by five three four M. Results negative.
Kirk said: Have them proceed to the next quadrant. Any word from engineering on our sensors?
Uhura said: They're working on them, sir. Still inoperable.
Kirk said: What about the transporters?
Uhura said: They're still reported unsafe.
Kirk said: Thank you, Lieutenant.
Ferris said: Captain.
Kirk said: Yes, Commissioner?
Ferris said: I don't relish the thought of abandoning your crewmen out there, however I must remind you
Kirk said: I haven't forgotten, Commissioner.
Ferris said: You're running out of time.
Kirk said: I haven't forgotten that, Commissioner. This is the captain. Try using overload power on the transporters. We've got to get them working.
Chief said: Aye, aye, Captain.
Kirk said: Uhura, order the Columbus to open its course two degrees on every lap from now on.
Sulu said: But Captain, two degrees means they'll be overlooking more than a dozen terrestrial miles on each search loop.
Kirk said: It also means we have a fighting chance to cover the majority of the planet's surface. Mind your helm, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Yes, sir.
Ferris said: (stepping into the turbolift) Twenty four more hours, Captain.
Scene: Shuttlecraft.
Spock said: Perhaps if you were to channel the second auxiliary tank through the primary intake valve.
Scott said: It's too delicate. It may not be able to take the pressure as it is.
Mccoy said: (coming in from rear compartment) This should save us at least fifty pounds, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Excellent, Doctor.
Mears said: We should be able to scrape up another hundred pounds.
Spock said: Which would still leave us at least one hundred and fifty pounds overweight.
Mccoy said: I can't believe you're serious about leaving someone behind. Now whatever it is that's out there
Spock said: It is more rational to sacrifice one life than six, Doctor.
Mccoy said: I'm not talking about rationality.
Spock said: You might be wise to start.
Boma said: (looking in from outside) Mister Spock. we're ready.
Spock said: For what?
Boma said: The services for Latimer.
Spock said: Mister Boma, we're working against time.
Boma said: The man's dead. He deserves a decent burial. You're the captain. A few words.
Spock said: Doctor, perhaps you know the correct words for such an occasion.
Mccoy said: Mister Spock, that's your place.
Spock said: My place is here. If you please, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Now look. We may all die here. At least let us die like men, not machines.
Spock said: By dealing with first things first, I hope to increase our chances of staying alive. Well, Mister Scott.
Scott said: If you'll give me a hand with this conduit.
Boma closes the door and leaves them to it
later
Scott said: Pressure's dropping. We're losing everything.
Spock said: What happened?
Scott said: One of the lines gave. The strain of coming through the atmosphere and the added load when we tried to bypass. Yes, that's done it. We have no fuel.
Spock said: That would seem to solve the problem of who to leave behind. Consider the alternatives, Mister Scott.
Scott said: We have no fuel! What alternatives?
Spock said: Mister Scott, there are always alternatives.
Mccoy said: Mister Spock! Something's happening outside.
Scene: Outside the shuttlecraft.
They crouch down behind a rock while Spock stands and listens to that scraping sound
Mccoy said: What do those supersensitive ears make of that, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Wood rubbing on some kind of leather.
Gaetano said: They're getting ready. They'll attack.
Boma said: Not necessarily. It could be a simple tribal rite, assuming a tribal culture.
Spock said: Not a tribal culture. Their artefacts are too primitive. More likely a loose association of some sort.
Mears said: If we knew more about them
Boma said: We know enough. If they're tribal, they'll have a sense of unity. We can use that.
Spock said: How, Mister Boma?
Boma said: By hitting them hard. Give them a bloody nose. Make them think twice about attacking us.
Gaetano said: Yes, I agree. If we stand by and do nothing, we're just giving them an invitation to come down and slaughter us.
Spock said: I'm frequently appalled by the low regard you Earthmen have for life.
Gaetano said: Well, we're practical about it. I say we hit them before they hit us.
Spock said: Mister Boma?
Boma said: Absolutely.
Spock said: Doctor McCoy?
Mccoy said: Seems logical to me.
Spock said: It does, indeed. It seems logical to me, also. But to take life indiscriminately,
Gaetano said: The majority.
Spock said: I am not interested in the opinion of the majority, Mister Gaetano. Components must be weighed. Our danger to ourselves as well as our duties to other life forms, friendly or not. There's a third course.
Gaetano said: That could get us killed.
Spock said: I think not. Doctor McCoy.
Mccoy said: Yes.
Spock said: You and Yeoman Mears return to the ship. Assist Mister Scott in any way possible. We'll be back shortly.
Mccoy said: Right.
Mears and McCoy leave
Spock said: Gentlemen, you'll follow my orders to the letter, firing only when so instructed, and at my designated targets.
Gaetano said: Now you're talking.
Spock said: We'll fire to frighten, Mister Gaetano, not to kill.
Gaetano said: Oh, for the. You saw what they did to Latimer!
Spock said: I am in command, Mister Gaetano. The orders and the responsibility will be mine. Follow me.
Scene: Rocks.
The trio are paddling through dry ice when a giant spear is thrown across their path. Spock fires at one assailant, who throws his shield at them too. They move on a little way.
Boma said: The mists. I can't see them.
Spock said: I hear them. They're directly ahead of us. Several, I believe. Direct your phasers to two o'clock and to ten o'clock.
Gaetano said: I say we hit them dead on.
Spock said: Yes, I know. But fortunately, I'm giving the orders. Take aim please, and fire when I give a signal.
He climbs partway up a rock, for a better view.
Spock said: Fire. (several seconds of sustained phaser beam) Cease fire. (It's gone quiet) They should think twice before bothering us again.
Gaetano said: I still say we should have killed them.
Spock said: It was not necessary. Fear will do for us what needs to be done. Mister Boma, you will return with me to the Galileo. Mister Gaetano, you remain on guard here. Keep in contact with the ship.
Boma says a silent goodbye to his colleague, and the noise starts up again
Scene: Shuttlecraft.
Mears said: Did you find them?
Spock said: Yes, we found them. They won't bother us again.
Mccoy said: I hope not. Scotty has an idea.
Scott said: It's dangerous, but it might work.
Spock said: Go, Mister Scott.
Scott said: I can adjust the main reactor to function with a substitute fuel supply.
Spock said: That's all very well, but we don't have a substitute supply.
Scott said: Aye, we do. Our phasers. I can adapt them and use their energy. It'll take time, but it's possible.
Mccoy said: Trouble is, they happen to be our only defence.
Spock said: They would also seem to be our only hope.
Scott said: Aye.
Spock said: (after brief thought) Yeoman, your phaser.
Mears said: But what if the creatures attack again?
Spock said: They won't attack for at least several hours. By then, with luck, we'll be gone.
Scott said: If I can get a full load, we should be able to achieve orbit with all hands. Not that we can maintain it long.
Spock said: We don't have to maintain it very long, Mister Scott. In less than twenty four hours, the Enterprise will be forced to abandon its search in order to make a rendezvous. If we can't maintain orbit after that time, it won't make any difference. If we burn up in a decaying orbit or die here on the planet's surface, we shall surely die. Doctor, your phaser. Go to work, Mister Scott.
Scott said: Aye, aye, sir.
Scene: Transporter room.
A bunch of boxes is beamed aboard
Chief said: They came back all right, sir. In my opinion, the transporters are now safe for human transport.
Kirk said: Good. This is the captain. Landing parties one, two, and three, report to transporter room for immediate beaming down to surface of the planet. Ordinance condition One A.
Chief said: Captain, it's a big planet. It'll be sheer luck if our landing parties find anything.
Kirk said: I'm depending on luck, Lieutenant. It's almost the only tool we have that'll work.
Scene: Rocks.
Gaetano has worked himself up into a panic when a rock knocks his phaser out of his hand. Then a spear is thrown, and finally the giant creature comes for the helpless man
Spock, Boma and McCoy arrive on the scene a little later, and examine the marks in the ground. Spock picks up the dropped phaser
Spock said: Take this back to Mister Scott for conversion, please Doctor.
Boma said: Nobody knows what's happened to Gaetano, and you hand over his phaser like nothing's happened at all.
Spock said: (handing over his own phaser) And give this to Mister Scott in the event I don't return.
Mccoy said: Just where are you going?
Spock said: I have a certain scientific curiosity about what's become of Mister Gaetano. Return to the ship, please.
Spock leaves
Mccoy said: I don't know. He'll risk his neck locating Gaetano and if he finds him, he's just as liable to order him to stay behind. You tell me.
Boma said: Do you really think the ship will ever leave?
Mccoy said: Well, it won't unless we get these phasers back.
Further on, Spock finds Gaetano's body draped over a rock. He picks him up in a fireman's lift and heads back to the shuttlecraft with him. Spears are thrown. McCoy and Boma help him get the body inside.
Scene: Shuttlecraft.
Scott is still lying in the middle of the floor, working
Mccoy said: Well, Mister Spock, they didn't stay frightened very long, did they?
Spock said: Most illogical reaction. We demonstrated our superior weapons. They should have fled.
Mccoy said: You mean they should have respected us?
Spock said: Of course.
Mccoy said: Mister Spock, respect is a rational process. Did it ever occur to you they might react emotionally, with anger?
Spock said: Doctor, I am not responsible for their unpredictability.
Mccoy said: They were perfectly predictable to anyone with feeling. You might as well admit it, Mister Spock, your precious logic brought them down on us.
Mears said: Why haven't they done anything?
Spock said: They're studying us, for the moment.
Boma said: Another prediction, Mister Spock?
Spock said: My opinion, Mister Boma.
The shuttlecraft shakes as one of the locals starts battering it with a rock
Spock said: Seal the windows!
Mccoy said: Studying us, Mister Spock? They seem to learn rather quickly.
Boma said: All right, Spock, you have all the answers. What now?
Spock said: Mister Boma, your tone is increasingly hostile.
Boma said: My tone isn't the only thing that's hostile, Mister Spock!
Spock said: Curious. Most illogical.
Boma said: I'm sick and tired of your logic!
Mears said: We could use a little inspiration.
Spock said: Strange. Step by step, I have made the correct and logical decisions. And yet two men have died.
Mccoy said: And you've brought our furry friends down on us.
Spock said: I do seem to have miscalculated regarding them, and inculcated resentment on your parts. The sum of the parts cannot be greater than the whole.
MCCOY A little less analysis and more action. That's what we need, Mister Spock.
Spock said: How much longer, Mister Scott?
Scott said: Another hour, maybe two.
Mccoy said: That won't be long enough.
Scott said: Doctor, a phaser can only drain so fast.
Boma said: How long do you think those plates will hold out under this? We've got to do something!
Scott said: You've got your hands full.
Captain's Log, stardate 2823.1. Our landing parties are on the surface of Taurus Two. We continue to hope. Instruments are slowly returning to an operable condition as the ion storm slowly disperses. On the ship, we can only wait helplessly.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: What word from the sensor section?
Uhura said: At last report they were getting some readings
Kirk said: I'm not interested in the last report. I want to know now.
Uhura said: Yes, sir.
Ferris said: You have two hours and forty three minutes, Captain.
Kirk said: I'm perfectly aware of how much time I have left.
Ferris said: I'm delighted. However I shall continue to remind you.
Kirk said: You do that.
Uhura said: Sir, sensor section reporting. Static interference still creating false images. Estimates eighty percent undependable.
Kirk said: What about radio communication?
Uhura said: Clearing slowly. Still incapable of transmission or reception.
Ferris said: What do you intend to do?
Kirk said: Do? I intend to continue the search. Foot by foot, inch by inch, by candlelight if necessary, until the last possible moment. And if you'd keep your nose off my bridge, I'd be thankful.
Ferris said: I'm sure the authorities will be pleased by your diligence, Captain. I'm not sure they'll appreciate the way you address a High Commissioner.
Kirk said: I'm in command here, Mister Ferris.
Ferris said: You are, Captain. For another two hours and forty two minutes.
Scene: Shuttlecraft.
Spock said: Mister Scott, how much power do we have left in the ship's batteries?
Scott said: They're in good shape, but they won't lift us off, if that's what you're getting at.
Spock said: Will they electrify the exterior of this ship?
Scott said: That they will, Mister Spock!
He dashes to the rear compartment and puts on big rubber gloves
Spock said: Get to the centre of the ship. Don't touch the plates. Be sure you're insulated. Stand by. Are you ready, Scott?
Scott said: Ready, Mister Spock.
Spock said: All right. Go. (Scott uses a spanner or something to short out the battery connections) Again! Again!
It goes quiet and still outside
Scott said: I daren't use any more. Not and be sure of ignition.
Spock said: I believe we've used enough. Mister Scott. I suggest you continue draining the phasers.
Scott said: Aye.
Mccoy said: It must've worked.
Spock said: For the moment.
Boma said: For the moment?
Spock said: The moment they discover they're not seriously hurt, they'll be back. Meanwhile, please check the aft compartment. See if there's anything you can unload to lighten the ship.
Boma said: Mister Gaetano's body's back there.
Spock said: It will of course have to be left behind.
Boma said: Not without a burial.
Spock said: I wouldn't recommend it. The creatures won't be far away.
Boma said: Not without a burial, Mister Spock.
Spock said: It would expose members of this crew to unnecessary peril.
Boma said: I'll take that chance. You see, Mister Spock, I would insist upon a decent burial even if your body was back there.
Mccoy said: Mister Boma.
Boma said: I'm sick and tired of this machine!
Scott said: That's enough!
Spock said: Gentlemen. All right, Mister Boma, you'll have your burial, provided the creatures will permit it.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Captain Kirk, landing party number two has been beamed back aboard ship. They have casualties. One dead, two injured.
Kirk said: (going to Spock's station) Put Lieutenant Kelowitz on visual.
Kelowitz said: Kelowitz, Captain.
His uniform is dirty and he sounds tired
Kirk said: Report.
Kelowitz said: We were attacked, Captain. Huge, furry creatures. I checked with astral anthropology, and they're order 480G, anthropoid. Similar to life forms discovered on Hansen's Planet, but much larger. Ten, twelve feet in height.
Kirk said: There are casualties?
Kelowitz said: Ensign O'Neal got a spear through the body before we even knew they were around. Lieutenant lmmamura has a dislocated shoulder and severe lacerations, but he'll make it all right. Captain, the creatures are all over the place. If the Galileo is down on that planet, I
Kirk said: Thank you, Lieutenant. You'd better report to Sickbay yourself.
Kelowitz said: Aye, aye, Captain.
Commissioner Ferris enters
Ferris said: Captain Kirk, check your chronometer. You'll see that it is 2823.8. Your time is up.
Kirk said: But they're still out there.
Ferris said: So are the plague victims on New Paris. I'm sorry, Captain. I now assume authority granted me under Title fifteen, Galactic Emergency Procedures, and I order you to abandon search.
Kirk said: The Columbus hasn't returned yet. I still have two search parties out.
Ferris said: You're procrastinating, Captain. You have your orders. Recall your search parties and proceed to Makus Three immediately.
Kirk said: Lieutenant.
Uhura said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Order the transporter room to immediately beam up the two search parties from the surface. Attempt to contact the Columbus.
Uhura said: I'm in partial contact with them now, sir.
Kirk said: Then have them return immediately. Mister Sulu, prepare to abandon search. Set course for Makus Three.
Captain's log, supplement. The search parties have returned to the ship, and the Columbus is on its way back. I have been compelled to abandon the search.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Captain, the sensor section says the beams are working again.
Kirk said: What about the other systems?
Uhura said: No, sir. Too much interference.
Sulu said: Captain, course set for Makus Three.
Kirk said: Stand ready, Mister Sulu. How long before the Columbus comes on board?
Uhura said: Twenty three minutes, sir.
Kirk said: Twenty three minutes.
Scene: Shuttlecraft.
Mears said: Enterprise, this is Galileo. Come in, please. Enterprise. Nothing, sir. Just ionic interference.
Scott said: That's it.
Spock said: How about weight?
Scott said: If we shed every ounce, we might be able to achieve orbit.
Spock said: And how long can we hold it?
Scott said: A few hours, no longer. But if we time it right, we can cut out of orbit and save enough fuel for a controlled re=entry.
Spock said: To land here again? Not a very attractive possibility.
Scott said: We have very few alternatives, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Doctor McCoy. Mister Boma. When can we lift off, Scott?
Scott said: Maybe eight minutes if the weight's right.
McCoy appears from the aft compartment
Spock said: Gentlemen, The ship will lift off in exactly ten minutes. You have that long to bury Mister Gaetano. Now, it appears to be clear outside, at least for the moment. I'll assist you. Hurry.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: The Columbus is aboard, sir. The flight hatch is closed. Transporter room reports last of the landing parties have beamed safely up. All systems report secured for warp factors.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu, proceed on course for Makus Three, at space normal speed.
Sulu said: Space normal, sir?
Kirk said: Those are my orders. Lieutenant Uhura, order all sensor sections to direct beams aft. Full function, continuous operation until further orders.
Uhura said: Yes, sir.
{Shuttlecraft]
From our viewpoint inside, we see the three men standing by two mounds of soil when giant spears start landing near them
Spock said: Get into the ship! Immediate lift off!
He throws a spear back, then gets pinned against a rock outcrop by a thrown boulder
Spock said: No! Go back! Lift off! Go back! No!
But Boma and McCoy ignore his orders and free him
Spock said: All right, All right! Go! Go! Go! Go!
They all get safely into the shuttlecraft
Spock said: Go, Scott!
Scott said: Aye, aye, sir.
Spock said: I told you to lift off!
Mccoy said: Don't be a fool, Mister Spock. We couldn't leave you out there.
Spock said: Get us off, Scott!
Scott said: We should be moving, but we're not.
Spock said: Quite right, Mister Scott. There's somebody holding us down. All systems are go, but we're not moving.
Throws switches on the pilot's panel
Scott said: What are you doing?
Spock said: Our boosters.
Scott said: We'll never be able to hold orbit.
Spock said: Would you rather stay here?
Scott said: No, Mister Spock.
They swap seats
Mears said: We're moving!
Boma said: They let go!
Mccoy said: We got off!
Spock said: May I remind you we have yet to achieve orbit, nor can we maintain it long. An hour from now we may be right back where we started from.
The Galileo leaves the sickly yellow and green atmosphere of the planet
Spock said: Gentlemen, by coming after me, you may well have destroyed what slim chance you had for survival. The logical thing for you to have done was to have left me behind.
Mccoy said: Mister Spock, remind me to tell you that I'm sick and tired of your logic.
Spock said: That is a most illogical attitude. Orbit in one minute, Mister Scott. Fuel status?
Scott said: Fifteen pounds psi. Approximately enough for one orbit, sir.
Mccoy said: After that?
Scott said: Tapping our boosters ended our last chance for a soft landing.
Boma said: You mean a burn-up?
Spock said: It is the usual end of a decaying orbit.
Mears said: I don't want to die up here.
Spock said: Infinitely preferable to the kind of death we'd be granted on the planet's surface, I should think.
Boma said: I admire your ability to make so measured a choice.
Scott said: Mister Spock, you said a while ago that there were always alternatives.
Spock said: Did l? I may have been mistaken.
Mccoy said: Well, at least I lived long enough to hear that. Is there anything we can do?
Spock said: The Enterprise is surely on course for Makus Three by now. I for one do not believe in angels.
Mccoy said: Well, Mister Spock, so ends your first command.
Spock said: Yes. My first command.
Scott said: Orbit attitude, Mister Spock. With our present fuel, that gives us about forty five minutes.
Spock said: Galileo to Enterprise. Galileo to Enterprise, come in, please. Galileo to Enterprise. Come in, please.
He ponders for a moment, then flicks the Fuel Jettison button
Scott said: Mister Spock!
There's a jolt as two long plumes of flame streak out from the nacelles
Mears said: What happened?
Scott said: He jettisoned the fuel and ignited it.
Boma said: We need that fuel to maintain orbit. Are you out of your mind?
Spock said: Perhaps, Mister Boma.
Mccoy said: How long have we got now, Scotty?
Scott said: The orbit'll start decaying as soon as the fuel's exhausted. Say six minutes.
Scene: Bridge.
The air is full of pointless status reports over the comm. when suddenly
Sulu said: Captain, there's something there on screen, at Taurus Two.
On the viewscreen, a long trail of yellow crosses the green of the planet
Kirk said: Sensors, a meteorite?
Sulu said: No. It's holding a lateral line. There it is again. Holding steady, Captain.
Kirk said: A hundred and eighty degrees about, Mister Sulu. Lieutenant Uhura, contact transporter room. All beams ready. Full normal speed.
Scene: Shuttlecraft.
Scott said: A distress signal? It's like sending up a flare. Mister Spock, that was a good gamble. Perhaps it was worth it.
Spock said: No one out there to see it.
The plume of flame fades out
Scott said: Orbit decaying, Mister Spock. Ten seconds to atmosphere.
Mccoy said: It may be the last action you'll ever take, Mister Spock, but it was all human.
Spock said: Totally illogical. There was no chance.
Mccoy said: That's exactly what I mean.
The front of the little craft starts to glow red, and instrumentation begins to smoke and crackle.
Mears said: It's getting hot.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Transporters locked in, sir.
Kirk said: Activate beams.
Our last view inside Galileo is of lots of smoke, then transporter beams
Sulu said: Whatever it was, Captain, it just burned up in the atmosphere.
Uhura said: Captain, transporter room just beamed up five persons. Alive and well.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu, proceed on course to Makus Three. Ahead warp factor one.
Sulu said: Aye, aye, sir. Warp factor one.
later, everyone is back on duty
Kirk said: Mister Spock.
Spock said: Captain.
Kirk said: There's really something I don't understand about all of this. Maybe you can explain it to me. Logically, of course. When you jettisoned the fuel and ignited it, you knew there was virtually no chance of it being seen, yet you did it anyhow. That would seem to me to be an act of desperation.
Spock said: Quite correct, Captain.
Kirk said: Now we all know, and I'm sure the doctor will agree with me, that desperation is a highly emotional state of mind. How does your well-known logic explain that?
Spock said: Quite simply, Captain. I examined the problem from all angles, and it was plainly hopeless. Logic informed me that under the circumstances, the only possible action would have to be one of desperation. Logical decision, logically arrived at.
Kirk said: I see. You mean you reasoned that it was time for an emotional outburst.
Spock said: Well, I wouldn't put it in exactly those terms, Captain, but those are essentially the facts.
Kirk said: You're not going to admit that for the first time in your life, you committed a purely human emotional act?
Spock said: No, sir.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, you're a stubborn man.
Spock said: Yes, sir.