What Are Little Girls Made Of?
Stardate:
2712.4
Original Airdate: 20 Oct, 1966
Scene: Bridge.
Crewman said: All sections, security check in progress. Report. Forward phaser
Kirk said: We're entering standard orbit, Nurse. It won't be much longer.
Crewman said: Forward scanner to Bridge.
Kirk said: I understand you gave up a career in bio-research to sign aboard a starship.
Chapel said: I know he's alive down there, Captain.
Crewman 2 said: Aft scanner to Bridge, Status report, please. Engineering controls
Kirk said: It's been five years since his last message.
Chapel said: Roger's a very determined man. He'd find a way to live.
Uhura said: Beginning signals to surface, sir.
Kirk said: Put it on all frequencies, Lieutenant.
Spock said: Ship's record banks show little we don't already know about this planet, Captain. Gravity is one point one of Earth, atmosphere within safety limits.
Kirk said: But the surface temperature of that planet is one hundred degrees below zero.
Spock said: It may have been inhabited once, but the sun in this system has been fading steadily for a half million years. Now, Doctor Korby, often called the Pasteur of archaeological medicine. His translation of medical records from the Orion ruins revolutionised our immunisation techniques.
Kirk said: Required reading at the academy, Mister Spock. I've always wanted to meet him. Do you think there's any chance of him still being alive?
Uhura said: I've tried all frequencies, sir. No return signal.
Kirk said: Keep trying.
Crewman said: Warp capacity point zero seven and building.
Crewman 2 said: Communicator, we need more lines to the impulse deck.
Chapel said: His last signal told about finding underground caverns.
Kirk said: And since then two expeditions have failed to find him.
Uhura said: I've run all frequencies a second time. There's no
Korby said: Enterprise, come in, Enterprise. This is Roger Korby. Repeating, this is Doctor Roger Korby. Do you read me, Enterprise? This is Doctor Roger Korby standing by.
Captain's log, Stardate 2712.4. A signal from planet Exo 3. Doctor Roger Korby has been located, he and part of his expedition remaining alive due to the discovery of underground ruins Ieft by the former inhabitants of this world.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Enterprise to Korby. We have your co-ordinates pin-pointed. We're preparing to beam down a party. It may interest you that we have aboard this vessel
Korby said: I've a rather unusual request, Captain Kirk. Beam down alone, just yourself. We've made discoveries of such a nature they may require an extraordinary decision from you.
Spock said: That's an unusual request.
Kirk said: The man making it is Doctor Roger Korby.
Spock said: You're certain you recognise his voice?
Chapel said: Have you ever been engaged, Mister Spock? Yes, it's Roger.
Kirk said: Agreed, Doctor. However, there will be two of us.
Chapel said: Hello, Roger.
Korby said: Christine!
Chapel said: Yes, Roger.
Korby said: Darling, how, Where are you? Yes, yes, by all means, Captain. I, I had no idea, no hope. Darling, are you all right?
Chapel said: Yes, Roger. Everything's all right now.
Kirk said: We're on our way, Doctor. We'll be with you in a moment. Enterprise out.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: Energise.
Scene: Tunnel entrance.
Chapel said: He said he'd be waiting. KIRK: Doctor Korby? Doctor Korby. It's possible we may have hit the wrong entry point. Kirk to Enterprise.
Spock said: Spock here, Captain.
Kirk said: Beam down two security men.
Spock said: Any problems, Captain?
Kirk said: Some delay in meeting us. Probably nothing at all. Kirk out. Corridors could be quite deep. Getting here may have taken more time than he estimated. Don't worry.
Chapel said: Thank you.
Kirk said: Rayburn, maintain post here.
Rayburn said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Matthews, we'll look for Doctor Korby. Accompany us.
Matthews said: Yes, sir.
Scene: Tunnels.
the trio go deeper into the tunnel complex, until Chapel slips at the edge of a deep pit. Further on they come to a bright light. A figure steps in front of it
Kirk said: Is that you, Doctor Korby?
Chapel said: Doctor Brown! It's Roger's assistant. Brownie, where's Roger?
a man screams, they dash back to the pit. A figure is creeping away, unseen
Brown said: Be careful.
Kirk said: Is there a path down there?
Brown said: There's no hope, Captain. It's bottomless. He must have slipped.
Kirk said: Any chance of a projection or a ledge?
Brown said: None, Captain. Unfortunate. Terribly unfortunate. Doctor Korby was detained. I came as soon as I could.
Kirk said: Not soon enough.
Chapel said: Brownie, what is it?
Brown said: Explain.
Chapel said: Don't you recognise me?
Brown said: Christine. You look well. My name is Brown, Doctor Korby's assistant. I presume you are Captain Kirk. He's dead, I assure you. Come, Doctor Korby will be waiting.
Kirk said: You do know him well? An old friend?
Chapel said: I suppose living here for five years.
Kirk said: Captain Kirk to Rayburn. Report.
Rayburn said: All quiet here at the entry, Captain.
Scene: Tunnel entrance.
Rayburn said: Any problems there, sir?
Kirk said: We lost Matthews. Apparently an accident. Tell the Enterprise to have a full security party standing by.
Rayburn said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: And we'll both report in at hourly intervals. If you and I lose contact, or if he fails to hear from either of us, he's to beam the security party down immediately. Kirk out.
the figure creeps up on Rayburn and attacks him
Scene: Tunnels.
Brown said: Doctor Korby has discovered that as their sun dimmed, the inhabitants of this planet moved underground from an open environment to this dark world. When you were a student of his, Christine, you must have often heard Doctor Korby remark how freedom of movement and choice produced the human spirit. The culture of Exo 3 proved his theory. When they moved from light to darkness, they replaced freedom with a mechanistic culture. Doctor Korby has been able to uncover elements of this culture which will revolutionise the universe when freed from this cavernous environment.
Scene: Korby's study.
Andrea said: I'm Andrea. You must be Christine. I've always thought how beautiful your name is. And you must be Captain Kirk of the Starship Enterprise. We appreciate you bringing Roger's fiancee to him.
Chapel said: I don't remember Doctor Korby mentioning an Andrea.
Andrea said: But you are exactly as Roger described you. No wonder he missed you so.
Kirk said: Where is Doctor Korby?
Korby said: Here, Captain. I, I've been looking forward to (sees Chapel, and they kiss)
Chapel said: Oh, I knew I'd find you.
Korby said: Everything's all right now. Oh, forgive me, Captain. I'm, er, I'm Roger Korby.
Kirk said: There's no need to apologise, sir, and certainly no need to introduce yourself.
Brown said: The captain lost a man in the caverns, Doctor.
Korby said: What? How did it happen?
Brown said: The pit near the outer junction. The edge must have given way.
Korby said: I'm terribly sorry, Captain. Perhaps if I'd been there. I know the passages so well.
Kirk said: It wasn't your fault. Kirk to Rayburn, report. I'm required to make a security confirmation. When I call my ship, if you list your personnel, cargo requirements, any special needs
Korby said: Captain, I'd much prefer
Kirk said: Rayburn, are you receiving?
Korby said: I'd prefer you waited, Captain, please, till I've talked to you.
Kirk said: I've lost contact with my guard. I'm required to call my ship.
Brown said: No communications, Captain. (holding weapon)
Chapel said: Roger.
Korby said: I'm sorry. If they should send down more people,
Chapel said: Roger, that
Korby said: He won't be harmed. I promise you. Isn't it possible there could be things here unknown to you, so terribly important
Kirk said: Sir, one man is dead. I've lost contact with the other.
Korby said: Andrea.
Kirk said: What are you doing?
Korby said: This is necessary, Captain. You will understand. Andrea. (she reaches for Kirk's phaser, but he grabs her to use as a shield and aims it at Brown instead, while moving towards a table to use as a barrier instead of the girl)
Kirk said: Drop it! (he fires, Brown falls straight backwards and the big figure bursts in and lifts Kirk off his feet. Chapel screams as she sees the hole in Brown reveals electronic parts)
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Enterprise from Captain Kirk. Come in. Do you read?
Uhura said: Frequency open, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Spock here, Captain.
Kirk said: Contact established with Doctor Korby.
Spock said: We were becoming concerned, Captain. Your check-in was overdue and since we'd not heard from your security team
Kirk said: No problem, Mister Spock. Bear with me.
Scene: Korby's study.
Ruk said: We'll return to the ship within forty eight hours. Doctor Korby's records and specimens will require careful packing.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Captain, are you all right? You sound tired.
Scene: korby's study.
Korby said: If you move or cry out, Ruk may injure you. At least wait until we can talk.
Spock said: Acknowledge, Captain. Is everything all right?
Ruk said: Fine, Mister Spock. Doctor Korby has made some fascinating discoveries. All under control. Stand by for regular contact. Kirk out.
Korby said: This is not a vain display, Captain. I'm a scientist. You obviously know my reputation. Trust me.
Kirk said: Yes, I know your reputation. The whole galaxy knows who you are and what you stand for. That's why all this makes no sense.
Korby said: There's so much you must learn Before you make a final judgment. For example (to Ruk) Andrea.
Ruk said: You must be Captain Kirk of the Starship Enterprise. [Korby's Voice] Christine, it's all right now.
Korby said: You see, Captain?
Ruk said: Yes Roger, everything is all right now.
Korby said: That's enough. You are not to mock Christine. You will never harm her.
Kirk said: Or disobey an order from her.
Korby said: You will not disobey her orders. Satisfied, Captain Kirk? Both love and trust. Now, give me twenty four hours to convince you.
Kirk said: Doctor, do I need to be a prisoner to be convinced?
Korby said: What would your first duty be upon return to your vessel? Report! Do you realise the number of discoveries lost because of superstition, of ignorance, of a layman's inability to comprehend?
Kirk said: A simple layman's question, Doctor. Where is my other crewman? Alive? Dead?
Korby said: Ruk was programmed to protect my experiments. The logic of his machine mind saw danger to me.
Kirk said: Where is my other crewman?
Korby said: Ruk destroyed them both, totally against my wishes I assure you.
Kirk said: He's an android like Brown?
Ruk said: More complex than Brown. Much superior. I was left here by the old ones.
Korby said: Ruk was still tending the machinery when we arrived here. How many centuries? Even Ruk doesn't know. With his help, ith the records I could find, we built Brown.
Kirk said: You've convinced me, Doctor. You've convinced me that you're dangerous. (makes a run for it but Ruk grabs him and throws him around)
Korby said: Ruk, no!
Scene: Dining room.
Andrea said: I do not understand. Why are you unhappy? You are with Roger again.
Chapel said: Where is Captain Kirk?
Andrea said: You are concerned about the captain?
Chapel said: Yes, I am concerned.
Andrea said: How can you love Roger without trusting him? Why does it bother you when I use the name Roger?
Korby said: Andrea, it's sufficient that it does disturb her. You will call me Doctor Korby from now on, Andrea.
Andrea said: Yes, Doctor Korby. I didn't mean to eavesdrop, darling. As you can see, Captain Kirk is fine. He won't be harmed. The things at stake here simply make it necessary he doesn't send a report to his ship. I need time to explain and demonstrate to him and to you. Now shall we start with Andrea?
Chapel said: Yes, let's start with Andrea.
Andrea said: I'm like Doctor Brown, an android. Didn't you know?
Korby said: Remarkable, isn't she? Notice the the lifelike pigmentation, the variation in skin tones. The flesh, the flesh has warmth. There's even a pulse, physical sensation.
Chapel said: How convenient.
Korby said: Christine, you must realise an android's like a computer. It does only what I programme. As a trained scientist yourself, you must realise that
Chapel said: Given a mechanical Doctor Brown, a mechanical geisha would be no more difficult.
Korby said: You think I could love a machine?
Chapel said: Did you?
Korby said: Andrea's incapable of that. She simply obeys orders. She has no meaning for me. There's no emotional bond. Andrea, kiss Captain Kirk. Now strike him. You see? There's no emotion in it, no emotional involvement. She simply responds to orders. She's a totally logical computer. A thing is not a woman. Now do you understand?
Kirk said: If these mechanical things have no feelings and perform only as you programme them, then why did Brown try to shoot me? Why did he kill two of my men? There are many things I don't understand, Doctor.
Korby said: I will answer all of your questions now.
Scene: Laboratory.
Korby said: This is how you make an android. (Kirk is naked on one side of circular table, a human-shaped blob on the other) Andrea. (the table starts turning) He's not being harmed, I promise.
Chapel said: Roger, what's happened to you? When I sat in your class, you wouldn't even dream of harming an insect or an animal. Their life was sacred to you then.
Korby said: Christine, if I'd simply beamed up to their vessel with Brown and the others, I'd have given them objects of curiosity, beginnings of wild stories, foolish theories. Ruk! Watch carefully. (the blob turns into Kirk, and the table is stopped) Choose, Christine. Which is your captain?
Chapel said: I don't know. They're exact. I honestly don't know.
Korby said: Synthetic organs are in place. We merely synchronise them with Kirk's autonomic nervous system, duplicating the rhythms of his body. At the same time, we duplicate the mental pattern. Now, physical pattern complete, we now make a mental pattern. Ready for final synaptic fusion. Andrea, stand by for cortex circuits. The android will be so perfect It could even replace the captain. The same memories, the same attitudes, the same abilities. Activate circuits.
Kirk said: Mind your own business, Mister Spock. I'm sick of your half-breed interference, do you hear? Mind your own business, Mister Spock. I'm sick of your half-breed (passes out, the other one wakes up)
Korby said: Complete.
Chapel said: Are you all right?
Kirk said: As far as I know.
Korby said: Now, meet an android.
Kirk2 said: How do you do, Miss Chapel?
Scene: Dining room.
Andrea said: I am now programmed to please you also. Is the food appealing?
Chapel said: Yes, thank you.
Andrea said: Please sit, Captain.
Kirk2 said: Thank you. I'm more or less on parole, I understand.
Andrea said: Doctor Korby suggested that you have lunch. He thought you might have a few things to talk about.
Chapel said: Captain.
Kirk2 said: I know, I know. I'd hate to be torn between commander and fianc�e myself.
Chapel said: No, I'm not torn. I'm puzzled. I'm worried.
Kirk2 said: Has he confided in you?
Chapel said: Nothing he hasn't told you. I know it doesn't make sense. What he's done may seem wrong, but he is Roger Korby, whatever he seems to be doing.
Kirk2 said: Unless something's gone wrong with his mind.
Chapel said: No. You're forgetting how well I know him. He's as sane as you or I.
Kirk2 said: Nurse, if I gave you a direct order to betray him
Chapel said: Please, don't ask me to make that choice. I'd much rather you push me off the same precipice where Matthews died. Oh, I can't. (pushes plate away) Please, go ahead and eat.
Kirk2 said: Androids don't eat, Miss Chapel.
Korby said: He even has your sense of humour.
Kirk said: Well, there's one difference between us. I'm hungry.
Kirk2 said: The difference is your weakness, Captain, not mine.
Korby said: One at a time, gentlemen. Captain?
Kirk said: Eating is a pleasure, sir. Unfortunately, one you will never know.
Kirk2 said: Perhaps, but I will never starve, sir.
Kirk said: He's an exact duplicate?
Korby said: In every detail.
Kirk said: What about memory? Tell me about Sam.
Kirk2 said: George Samuel Kirk, your brother. Only you call him Sam.
Kirk said: He saw me off on this mission.
Kirk2 said: Yes, with his wife and three sons.
Kirk said: He said he was being transferred to Earth colony two research station.
Kirk2 said: No, Captain. He said he was continuing his research and that he wanted to be transferred to Earth colony two.
Korby said: You might as well try to outthink a calculating machine.
Kirk said: Obviously, I can't, but we do have some interesting differences.
Korby said: Totally unimportant ones. You may leave now. (Kirk2 leaves) You haven't guessed the rest? Not even you, Christine? What you saw was only a machine, Only half of what I could've accomplished, Do you understand? By continuing the process I could've transferred you, your very consciousness into that android. Your soul, if you wish. All of you. In android form, a human being can have practical immortality. Can you understand what I'm offering mankind?
Kirk said: Programming. Different word, but the same old promises made by Genghis Khan, Julius Caesar, Hitler, Ferris, Maltuvis.
Korby said: Can you understand that a human converted to an android can be programmed for the better? Can you imagine how life could be improved if we could do away with jealousy, greed, hate?
Kirk said: It can also be improved by eliminating love, tenderness, sentiment. The other side of the coin, Doctor.
Korby said: No one need ever die again. No disease, no deformities. why even fear can be programmed away, replaced with joy. I'm offering you a pracical heaven, a new paradise, and all I need is your help.
Kirk said: All you wanted before was my understanding.
Korby said: I need transportation to a planet colony with proper raw materials. I'm sure there are several good possibilities among your next stops. No diversion from your route. I want no suspicions aroused. I'll begin producing androids carefully, selectively.
Kirk said: Yes, yes. No one need know, only to frighten uninformed minds.
Korby said: They must be strongly infiltrated into society before the android existence is revealed. I want no wave of hysteria to destroy what is good and right. You with me, Captain?
Kirk said: You've created your own Kirk. Why do you need me?
Korby said: I created him to impress you, not to replace you.
Kirk said: I'm impressed, Doctor, but not the way you think! (leaps up with cord he's untied from the chair leg and loops it around Korby's throat) Stand back, Ruk! I'll kill him! Stay back. (goes through door, releasing Korby into Ruk's arms)
Korby said: Ruk, protect!
Chapel said: Roger, I. Ruk, no! (runs after him)
Scene: Tunnels.
Chapel said: Ruk, stop! Doctor Korby said you are to obey me! Ruk! Ruk! Ruk, I order you not to harm him!
Kirk breaks off a stalactite to use as a club. RUk hears the sound
Ruk said: Captain Kirk, where are you? Captain Kirk! I can help you!
Kirk said: Christine, is that you?
Ruk sneaks up and they struggle, ending up with Kirk dangling from the edge of the pit. After thinking about it, Ruk pulls him up to safety
Scene: Corridor.
Spock said: Captain!
Scene: Bedroom.
Spock said: Captain, We finished ahead of schedule.
Kirk2 said: Doctor Korby has considerable cargo to beam aboard. I'll have to go over our destination schedule with him.
Spock said: You're going back down with the command pack?
Kirk2 said: Mind your own business, Mister Spock. I'm sick of your half-breed interference, do you hear?
Spock said: Yes. very well, Captain.
Kirk2 said: You look upset, Mister Spock. Is everything all right up here?
Spock said: No problems here, sir.
Kirk2 said: Good. I'll beam up shortly with Doctor Korby and party. (leaves);
Spock said: Security, Spock here. Status of your landing party?
Security said: Ready and standing by, sir,
Spock said: Have them meet me in the transporter room after the Captain has beamed down.
Scene: Korby's study.
Kirk2 said: I looked it over. I think you'll find planet Midas Five an excellent choice.
Korby said: A small colony. Abundant raw materials. You made a good beginning, Captain.
Kirk2 said: Thank you. I felt quite at home on the Enterprise.
Scene: Bedroom.
Kirk said: Andrea, kiss me. (she does, then raises her arm to slap him. He stops her and pulls her in for a passionate embrace)
Andrea said: No. Not programmed for you.
Kirk said: What's the matter, Andrea? Confused?
Andrea said: No. (leaves. Ruk blocks Kirk's attempt to leave)
Kirk said: Emotion, Ruk? You disapprove of Miss Chapel's orders to save my life?
Ruk said: To maintain your existence would be illogical.
Kirk said: Why? Can't your memory banks solve a simple equation like that? What happened to the old ones, Ruk?
Ruk said: So long ago.
Kirk said: Is it possible they built their machines too well, gave them pride and a desire to survive? Machines that wanted logic and order and found that frustrated by the illogical emotional creatures that built them?
Ruk said: Yes, the old ones. The ones who made us. They grew fearful of us. They began to turn us off.
Kirk said: And isn't it Korby who's creating the same danger to you all over again? Unlike you, we humans are full of unpredictable emotions that logic cannot solve.
Ruk said: Yes. Yes, it had been so long ago, I had forgotten. The old ones here. The ones who made us, yes. Yes, it is still in my memory banks. It became necessary to destroy them. You are inconsistent. You cannot be programmed. You are inferior.
Kirk said: And Korby?
Ruk said: You came from the outside. You bring disorder here.
Kirk said: The danger to you is Korby.
Ruk said: I was programmed by Korby. I cannot harm him.
Kirk said: The old ones programmed you, too, but it became possible to destroy them.
Ruk said: That was the equation! (seizes Kirk) Existence! Survival must cancel out programming.
Kirk said: That's it, Ruk! Logic! You can't protect someone who's trying to destroy you!
Korby said: Ruk, I would like
Ruk said: You brought him among us. You brought the inferior ones. We had cleansed ourselves of them. Now you bring the evil back!
Korby said: Ruk, stop! Your programming. (fires phaser, Ruk vanishes) I had no choice.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: You were a man with respect for all things alive. How can I explain the change in you? If I was to tell Earth I was in your hands, to tell them what has become (jumps Korby and traps his arm in a door. The skin tears to reveal electronics)
Scene: Korby's study.
Korby said: It's still me, Christine. Roger. I'm in here. You can't imagine how it was. I was frozen, dying. My legs were gone. I was, I had only my brain between life and death. This can be repaired easier than another man can set a broken finger. I'm still the same as I was before, Christine, perhaps even better.
Chapel said: Are you, Roger?
Korby said: (into comm. unit) Andrea.
Andrea said: Yes, Doctor.
Korby said: There's someone in the outer junction.
Kirk said: Spock. He must've got my message.
Andrea said: I will find Ruk.
Chapel said: But he'll never find us in this maze.
Korby said: Ruk has been shut off.
Scene: Laboratory.
Korby said: Get a weapon. Deal with it. Protect.
Scene: Corridor outside laboratory.
Andrea said: I will kiss you.
Kirk2 said: No.
Andrea said: You, you will not?
Kirk2 said: It is illogical. (she disintegrates him)
Scene: Korby's study.
Korby said: I'm the same! A direct transfer. All of me, human, rational, and without a flaw.
Andrea said: He freed himself, and I destroyed, (sees Kirk there) destroyed him. I am not programmed for alarms. I listened to your instructions. They were mis-stated.
Kirk said: She killed the android, Korby, the same way you killed Ruk. Is this your perfect world, your flawless beings killing off one another? Aren't you doing exactly what you hate most in humans, killing with no more concern than when you turn off a light?
Korby said: I'm not a computer. Test me. Ask me to solve any, equate, transmit. Christine, Christine, let me prove myself. Does this make such a difference?
Chapel said: Don't you see, Roger? Everything you've done has proved it isn't you.
Korby said: I am Roger Korby!
Kirk said: Then prove it. Give me that phaser gun. If there's any human left in you, give it to me.
Korby said: No. You will never understand. I constructed a perfect being, tested it, proved it. Proved it. Proved it? (hands phaser to Kirk)
Kirk said: Andrea, give me the weapon.
Andrea said: No. Protect. Protect. (to Korby) To love you. To, to kiss you.
Korby said: No. You cannot love. You're not human.
Andrea said: Love you. Kiss. (Korby reaches for trigger and disintegrates them both)
Spock [Oc} said: Captain Kirk!
Kirk said: In here, Spock.
Spock said: Captain, are you all right? Nurse? Where's Doctor Korby?
Kirk said: Doctor Korby was never here.
Scene: Bridge.
Chapel said: Thank you for letting me make the decision, Captain. I'm quite certain I'm doing the right thing. (leaves)
Kirk said: She's staying with the ship. Something bothering you, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Frankly, I was rather dismayed by your use of the term half-breed, Captain. You must admit it is an unsophisticated expression.
Kirk said: I'll remember that Mister Spock, the next time I find myself in a similar situation. Steady as we go, helm.