The Cage
Unaired pilot
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Check the circuit.
Tyler said: All operating, sir.
Spock said: It can't be the screen then. Definitely something out there, Captain, headed this way.
Tyler said: It could be these meteorites.
One said: No, it's something else. There's still something out there.
Tyler said: It's coming at the speed of light, collision course. The meteorite beam has not deflected it, Captain.
One said: Evasive manoeuvres, sir?
Pike said: Steady as we go.
Garison said: It's a radio wave, sir. We're passing through an old-style distress signal.
Pike said: They were keyed to cause interference and attract attention this way.
Garison said: A ship in trouble making a forced landing, sir. That's it. No other message.
Tyler said: I have a fix. It comes from the Talos star group.
One said: We've no ships or Earth colonies that far out.
Spock said: Their call letters check with a survey expedition. SS Columbia. It disappeared in that region approximately eighteen years ago.
Tyler said: It would take that long for a radio beam to travel from there to here.
Spock said: Records show the Talos group has never been explored. Solar system similar to Earth, eleven planets. Number four seems to be Class M, oxygen atmosphere.
One said: Then they could still be alive, even after eighteen years.
Pike said: If they survived the crash.
Spock said: We aren't going to go, to be certain?
Pike said: Not without any indication of survivors, no. Continue to the Vega Colony and take care of our own sick and injured first. You have the helm. Maintain present course.
One said: Yes, sir.
Scene: Pike's quarters.
Boyce [Oc} said: Boyce here.
Pike said: Drop by my cabin, Doctor. (Boyce enters with bag) What's that? I didn't say there's anything wrong with me.
Boyce said: I understand we picked up a distress signal.
Pike said: That's right. Unless we get anything more positive on it, it seems to me the condition of our own crew takes precedent. I'd like to log the ship's doctor's opinion, too.
Boyce said: Oh, I concur with yours, definitely.
Pike said: Good. I'm glad you do, because we're going to stop first at the Vega Colony and replace anybody who needs hospitalisation and also. What the devil are you putting in there, ice?
Boyce said: Who wants a warm martini?
Pike said: What makes you think I need one?
Boyce said: Sometimes a man'll tell his bartender things he'll never tell his doctor. What's been on your mind, Chris, the fight on Rigel Seven?
Pike said: Shouldn't it be? My only yeoman and two others dead, seven injured.
Boyce said: Was there anything you personally could have done to prevent it?
Pike said: Oh, I should have smelled trouble when I saw the swords and the armour. Instead of that, I let myself get trapped in that deserted fortress and attacked by one of their warriors.
Boyce said: Chris, you set standards for yourself no one could meet. You treat everyone on board like a human being except yourself, and now you're tired and you
Pike said: You bet I'm tired. You bet. I'm tired of being responsible for two hundred and three lives. I'm tired of deciding which mission is too risky and which isn't, and who's going on the landing party and who doesn't, and who lives and who dies. Boy, I've had it, Phil.
Boyce said: To the point of finally taking my advice, a rest leave?
Pike said: To the point of considering resigning.
Boyce said: And do what?
Pike said: Well, for one thing, go home. Nice little town with fifty miles of parkland around it. Remember I told you I had two horses, and we used to take some food and ride out all day.
Boyce said: Ah, that sounds exciting. Ride out with a picnic lunch every day.
Pike said: I said that's one place I might go. I might go into business on Regulus or on the Orion colony.
Boyce said: You, an Orion trader, dealing in green animal women, slaves?
Pike said: The point is this isn't the only life available. There's a whole galaxy of things to choose from.
Boyce said: Not for you. A man either lives life as it happens to him, meets it head-on, and licks it, or he turns his back on it and starts to wither away.
Pike said: Now you're beginning to talk like a doctor, bartender.
Boyce said: Take your choice. We both get the same two kinds of customers. The living and the dying.
Spock said: Mister Spock here. We're intercepting a follow-up message, sir. There are crash survivors on Talos.
Scene: Bridge.
Garison said: (reads) Eleven survivors from crash. Gravity and oxygen within limits. Food and water obtainable, but unless. The message faded at that point, sir.
Pike said: Address intercraft.
Tyler said: System open.
Pike said: This is the captain. Our destination is the Talos star group. Our time warp, factor seven.
Tyler said: Course computed and on the screen.
One said: All decks have acknowledged, sir.
Pike said: Engage.
Tyler said: On course, sir.
Colt enters. Pike turns around and bumps into her
Pike said: Yeoman.
Colt said: Yes, sir.
Pike said: I thought I told you that when I'm on the bridge
Colt said: But you wanted the reports by oh five hundred. It's oh five hundred now, sir.
Pike said: Oh, I see. Thank you.
One said: She's replacing your former yeoman, sir.
Pike said: She does a good job, all right. It's just that I can't get used to having a woman on the bridge. No offence, Lieutenant. You're different, of course.
The Enterprise arrives at a planet
Tyler said: We've settled into orbit, sir.
Geologist said: Geological lab report complete, Captain.
Spock said: Preliminary lab survey ready, sir.
Pike said: Spectography?
Geologist said: Our reading shows an oxygen nitrogen atmosphere, sir, heavy with inert elements but well within safety limits.
Pike said: Gravity?
Geologist said: Zero point nine of Earth.
Tyler said: Captain? Reflections, sir, from the planet's surface. As I read it, they polarise out as rounded metal bits. Could be parts of a spaceship hull.
Pike said: Prep a landing party of six. You feel up to it?
Spock said: Yes, sir.
Tyler said: Yes, sir.
Pike said: Sorry, Number One. With little information on this planet, we'll have to leave the ship's most experienced officer here covering us.
One said: Of course, sir.
Scene: Transporter room.
Pike said: There's no indication of problems down there, but let's not take chances.
Pitcairn said: Yes, sir. There's a canyon to the left. We can set you there completely unobserved.
Scene: Planet surface.
the group explores until they find a rough settlement
Garison said: Sir.
Old Man said: They're men. They're humans.
Pike said: Captain Christopher Pike, United Space Ship Enterprise.
Haskins said: Doctor Theodore Haskins, American Continent lnstitute.
Survivor said: Is Earth all right?
Pike said: The same old Earth, and you'll see it very soon.
Tyler said: And you won't believe how fast you can get back. Well the time barrier's been broken. Our new ships can
He's struck dumb by the sight of a lovely young woman
Haskins said: This is Vina. Her parents are dead. She was born almost as we crashed.
The reunion is being watched on another screen, by three people with big bald heads
Pike said: (as the survivors pack up the settlement) Enterprise.
One said: Landing party, come in.
Pike said: We'll begin transporting the survivors and their effects up to you very shortly.
One said: Quarters are being prepared, sir. Have I permission to send out scouting and scientific parties now?
Pike said: That's affirmative on the
Vina said: You appear to be healthy and intelligent, Captain. A prime specimen.
One said: I didn't get that last message, Captain.
Pike said: Er, affirmative on request. Landing party out.
Haskins said: You must forgive her choice of words, Captain. She's lived her whole life with a collection of aging scientists.
Boyce said: If they can spare you a moment, I'd like to make my medical report.
Vina said: I think it's time to show the Captain our secret.
Boyce said: Their health is excellent. Almost too good.
Haskins said: There's a reason for our condition, but we've had some doubt if Earth is ready to learn the secret. Let the girl show you. We'll accept your judgment.
Pike follows Vina up a slope to a ledge by a rock face
Vina said: You're tired, but don't worry. You'll feel much better soon. Don't you see it? Here and here.
Pike said: I don't understand.
Vina said: You will. You're a perfect choice.
Vina vanishes, and so do all the survivors and their encampment. A door opens in the rock face, Pike is knocked out and taken inside. At the settlement -
Tyler said: Captain!
Everyone rushes over in time to see the door closing in the rock. They fire their phasers at it but it just blasts away the rock covering to show the metal underneath.
Spock said: Spock here.
One said: Landing party, come in.
Spock said: There is no survivors' encampment, Number One. This is all some sort of trap. We've lost the Captain. Do you read?
Scene: Pike's cage.
Pike wakes to find himself in a cell with a transparent wall blocking his escape. He tests it's strength, and notices other similar occupied cells. There's a fanged ape, a giant bird and other scary shadows. The three aliens arrive
Pike said: Can you hear me? My name is Christopher Pike, commander of the space vehicle Enterprise from a stellar group at the other end of this galaxy. Our intentions are peaceful. Can you understand me?
the aliens communicate with their minds, not voices
Talosian said: It appears, Magistrate, that the intelligence of the specimen is shockingly limited.
Magistrate said: This is no surprise since his vessel was baited here so easily with a simulated message. As you can read in its thoughts, it is only now beginning to suspect that the survivors and encampment were a simple illusion we placed in their minds.
Pike said: You're not speaking, yet I can hear you.
Magistrate said: You will note the confusion as it reads our thought transmissions.
Pike said: All right then, telepathy. You can read my mind. I can read yours. Now, unless you want my ship to consider capturing me an unfriendly act
Magistrate said: You now see the primitive fear threat reaction. The specimen is about to boast of his strength, the weaponry of his vessel, and so on. Next, frustrated into a need to display physical prowess, the creature will throw himself against the transparency.
Pike said: If you were in here, wouldn't you test the strength of these walls, too? There's a way out of any cage, and I'll find it.
Magistrate said: Despite its frustration, the creature appears more adaptable than our specimens from other planets. We can soon begin the experiment.
Scene: Briefing room.
Spock said: The inhabitants of this planet must live deep underground, and probably manufacture food and other needs down there. Our tests indicate the planet surface, without considerably more vegetation or some animals, simply too barren to support life.
One said: So we just thought we saw survivors there, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Exactly. An illusion placed in our minds by this planet's inhabitants.
Boyce said: It was a perfect illusion. They had us seeing just what we wanted to see, human beings who'd survived with dignity and bravery, everything entirely logical, right down to the building of the camp, the tattered clothing, everything. Now let's be sure we understand the danger of this. The inhabitants of this planet can read our minds. They can create illusions out of a person's own thoughts, memories, and experiences, even out of a person's own desires. Illusions just as real and solid as this table top and just as impossible to ignore.
One said: Any estimate what they might want one of us for?
Spock said: They may simply be studying the Captain, to find out how Earth people are put together. Or it could be something more.
Tyler said: Then why aren't we doing anything? That entry may have stood up against hand lasers, but we can transmit the ship's power against it. Enough to blast half a continent.
Spock said: Look. Brains three times the size of ours. If we start buzzing about down there, we're liable to find their mental power is so great they could reach out and swat this ship as though it were a fly.
Tyler said: It's Captain Pike they've got. He needs help, and he probably needs it fast.
One said: Engineering deck will rig to transmit ship's power. We'll try blasting through that metal.
Scene: Talosian monitoring room.
As Pike continues to explore his cell
Talosian said: Thousands of us are already probing the creature's thoughts, Magistrate. We find excellent memory capacity.
Magistrate said: I read most strongly a recent death struggle in which it fought to protect its life. We will begin with this, giving the specimen something more interesting to protect.
Scene: Rigel Seven.
Vina said: Come on, we must hide ourselves. Come, come. Hurry. It's deserted. There'll be weapons and perhaps food.
Pike said: This is Rigel Seven.
Vina said: Please, we must hide ourselves.
Pike said: I was in a cage, a cell, in some kind of a zoo. I must still be there.
Vina said: Come on.
Pike said: They've reached into my mind and taken the memory of somewhere I've been.
Vina said: The killer!
Pike said: It's starting just as it happened two weeks ago. Except for you.
Scene: Fortress.
The courtyard is scattered with lances and spears
Pike said: Longer hair, different dress, but it is you, the one the survivors called Vina. Or rather the image of Vina. But why you again? Why didn't they create a different girl?
The killer enters - a big humanoid with shield and axe
Vina said: Quick. If you attack while it's not looking.
Pike said: But it's only a dream.
Vina said: You have to kill him as you did here before.
Pike said: You can tell my jailers I won't go along with it. I'm not an animal performing for its supper.
Vina said: It doesn't matter what you call this, you'll feel it. That's what matters. You'll feel every moment of whatever happens to you. Please, don't you know what he'll do to us?
so Pike fights the killer with mace and shield
Pike said: Why would an illusion be frightened?
Vina said: Because that's the way you imagined me.
Pike said: Who are you? You act as if this were really you.
Vina said: Careful.
Pike and Vina retreat up some stairs. The killer breaks Pike's spear and they throw objects at it. Pike gets knocked down into the courtyard. The killer grabs Vina and Pike throws a spear into it's back. Then it jumps down and spears itself on a wicked harpoon that Pike grabs just in time
Scene: Pike's cell.
Vina said: It's over.
Vina hugs her hero, then sees the Talosians watching them. The Talosians leave.
Pike said: Why are you here?
Vina said: To please you.
Pike said: Are you real?
Vina said: As real as you wish.
Pike said: No, no. No, that's not an answer. I've never met you before, never even imagined you.
Vina said: Perhaps they made me out of dreams you've forgotten.
Pike said: What, and dress you in the same metal fabric they wear?
Vina said: I have to wear something, don't I? I can wear whatever you wish, be anything you wish.
Pike said: So they can see how their specimen performs? They want to see how I react, is that it?
Vina said: Don't you have a dream, something you've always wanted very badly?
Pike said: Or do they do more than just watch me? Do they feel with me, too?
Vina said: You can have whatever dream you want. I can become anything, any woman you've ever imagined. You can have anything you want in the whole universe. Let me please you.
Pike said: Yes. Yes, you can please me. You can tell me about them. Is there any way I can keep them from probing my mind, from using my thoughts against me? Does that frighten you? Does that mean there is a way?
Vina said: You're a fool.
Pike said: Since you're not real, there's not much point in continuing this conversation, is there.
Scene: Planet surface.
(A big laser cannon is aimed at the door in the rock.
One said: All circuits engaged, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Standing by, Number One.
One said: Take cover.
Spock said: Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one.
The laser cannon blasts away
One said: Increase to full power! Can you give us any more?
Spock said: Our circuits are beginning to heat. We'll have to cease power.
One said: Disengage. The top of that knoll should have been sheared off the first second.
Boyce said: Maybe it was. It's what I tried to explain in the briefing room. Their power of illusion is so great, we can't be sure of anything we do, anything we see.
Scene: Pike's cell.
Vina said: Perhaps if you asked me some questions, I could answer.
Pike said: How far can they control my mind?
Vina said: If I tell you, then will you pick some dream you've had and let me live it with you?
Pike said: Perhaps.
Vina said: They can't actually make you do anything you don't want to do.
Pike said: But they try to trick me with their illusions.
Vina said: And, they can punish you when you're not co-operative. You'll find out about that.
Pike said: Did they ever live on the surface of this planet? Why did they go underground?
Vina said: War, thousands of centuries ago.
Pike said: That's why it's so barren up there?
VINA; The planet's only now becoming able to support life again.
Pike said: So the Talosians who came underground found life limited here and they concentrated on developing their mental power.
Vina said: But they found it's a trap. Like a narcotic. Because when dreams become more important than reality, you give up travel, building, creating. You even forget how to repair the machines left behind by your ancestors. You just sit, living and reliving other lives left behind in the thought record.
Pike said: Or sit probing minds of zoo specimens like me.
Vina said: You're better than a theatre to them. They create the illusion for you, they watch you react, feel your emotions. They have a whole collection of specimens, descendants of life brought back long ago from all over this part of the galaxy.
Pike said: Which means they had to have more than one of each animal.
Vina said: Please.
Pike said: They'll need a pair of humans too. Where do they get intend to get the Earth woman?
Vina said: You said that if I answered questions
Pike said: But that was a bargain with something that didn't exist. You said you weren't real, remember?
Vina said: I'm a woman as real and as human as you are. We're like Adam and Eve. If we. Don't. Please don't punish me! (disappears)
Pike sees the Magistrate walk away
Pike continues to search the walls for a door when a hatch opens and a glass is placed on the floor
Magistrate said: The vial contains a nourishing protein complex.
Pike said: Is the keeper actually communicating with one of his animals?
Magistrate said: If the form and the colour is not appealing, it can appear as any food you wish to visualise.
Pike said: And if I prefer
Magistrate said: To starve? You overlook the unpleasant alternative of punishment.
Pike is surrounded by fire and brimstone, screaming in pain
Magistrate said: From a fable you once heard in childhood. You will now consume the nourishment.
Pike said: Why not just put irresistible hunger in my mind? Because you can't, can you? You do have limitations, don't you?
Magistrate said: If you continue to disobey, from deeper in your mind, there are things even more unpleasant.
Pike drinks the nourishment then launches himself at the glass wall. The Magistrate steps back in surprise
Pike said: That's very interesting.
Magistrate said: Now to the female.
Pike said: You were startled. Weren't you reading my mind then?
Magistrate said: As you've conjectured, an Earth vessel did crash on our planet, but with only a single survivor.
Pike said: No, let's stay on the first subject. All I wanted for that moment was to get my hands around your neck.
Magistrate said: We repaired the survivor's injuries and found the species interesting.
Pike said: Do primitive thoughts put up a block you can't read through?
Magistrate said: It became necessary to attract a mate.
Pike said: All right, all right, let's talk about the girl. You seem to be going out of your way to make her attractive, to make me feel protective.
Magistrate said: This is necessary in order to perpetuate the species.
Pike said: It seems more important to you now that I begin to accept her and like her.
Magistrate said: We wish our specimens to be happy in their new life.
Pike said: Assuming that's a lie, why would you want me attracted to her? So I'll feel love in a husband-wife relationship? That would be necessary only if you intend to build a family group or perhaps a whole human community.
Magistrate said: With the female now properly conditioned.
Pike said: You mean properly punished! I'm the one who's not co-operating! Why don't you punish me?
Magistrate said: First, an emotion of protectiveness. Now one of sympathy. Excellent.
Scene: Woodland glade.
A picnic spread on a tartan rug, two horses standing by, a futuristic city in the distance
Vina said: You want some coffee, dear? I left the thermos hooked to my saddle.
Pike said: Tango! You old devil, you. I'm sorry I don't have any sugar. Well, they think of everything, don't they? (feeds lumps to the horse)
Vina said: Hey, your coffee. Is it good to be home?
Pike said: They read our minds very well. Home, anything else I want, if I co-operate, is that it?
Vina said: Have you forgotten my headaches, darling? I get them when you talk strangely like this.
Pike said: Look, I'm sorry they punish you, but we can't let them
Vina said: My, it turned out to be a lovely day, didn't it?
Pike said: It's funny. It's about twenty four hours ago I was telling the ship's doctor how much I wanted something else not very different from what we have here. An escape from reality. Life with no frustrations. No responsibilities. Now that I have it, I understand the doctor's answer.
Vina said: I hope you're hungry. These little white sandwiches are your mother's recipe for chicken tuna.
Pike said: You either live life, bruises, skinned knees and all, or you turn your back on it and start dying. The doctor's going to be happy about one part, at least. He said I needed a rest.
Vina said: This is a lovely place to rest.
Pike said: I used to ride through here when I was a kid. It's not as pretty as some of the parkland around the big cities, but. That's Mojave. That's where I was born.
Vina said: Is that supposed to be news to your wife? You're home. You can even stay if you want. Wouldn't it be nice showing your children where you once played?
Pike said: These headaches, they'll be hereditary you know. Would you wish them on a child or a whole group of children?
Vina said: Foolish.
Pike said: Is it? Look, first they made me protect you and then feel sympathy for you. Now we have these familiar surroundings and a comfortable husband-wife relationship. They don't need all this for just passion. What they're after is respect and mutual dependence.
Vina said: They say in the olden days all this was a desert. Blowing sand and cactus.
Pike said: But we're not here, neither of us. We're in a menagerie, a cage!
Vina said: No.
PIKE; I can't help either one of us if you won't give me a chance. Now, you told me once they used illusions as a narcotic. They couldn't repair the machines left by their ancestors. Is that why they want us, to build a colony of slaves?
Vina said: Stop it. Don't you care what they'll do to us?
Pike said: Back in my cage, it seemed for a couple of minutes that our keeper couldn't read my thoughts. Do emotions like hate, keeping hate in your mind, does that block off our mind from them?
Vina said: Yes. They can't read through primitive emotions. But you can't keep it up for long enough. I've tried. They keep at you and at you year after year, tricking and punishing, and they won. They own me. I know you must hate me for that.
Pike said: Oh, no. I don't hate you. I can guess what it was like.
Vina said: But that's not enough. Don't you see? They read my thoughts, my feelings, my dreams of what would be a perfect man. That's why they picked you. I can't help but love you and they expect you to feel the same way.
Pike said: If they can read my mind, then they know I'm attracted to you.
Scene: Talosian monitoring room.
Pike said: I was from the very first moment I saw you in the survivor's camp.
Talosian said: A curious species. They have fantasies they hide even from themselves.
Vina said: I'm beginning to see why none of this has worked for you. You've been home, and fighting as on Rigel. That's not new to you, either. A person's strongest dreams are about what he can't do. Yes, a ship's captain, always having to be so formal, so decent and honest and proper. You must wonder what it would be like to forget all that.
Scene: Open air party.
A band plays, and a green woman dances sensuously
Officer said: Nice place you have here, Mister Pike.
The dancer is -
Pike said: Vina? ORION: Glistening green. Almost like secret dreams a bored ship captain might have.
Officer said: Funny how they are on this planet. They actually like being taken advantage of. Suppose you had all of space to choose from, and this was only one small sample.
Orion said: Wouldn't you say it was worth a man's soul?
Pike gets up and leaves. The door he walks through turns into a rock wall. Then Vina is there, holding a blazing torch
Scene: Transporter room.
Spock said: We've located a magnetic field that seems to come from their underground generator.
Garison said: Could that be an illusion too?
One said: Now, you all know the situation. We're hoping to transport down inside the Talosian community.
Spock said: If our measurements and readings are an illusion also, one could find oneself materialised inside solid rock.
One said: Nothing will be said if any volunteer wants to back out.
Pitcairn energises but only Number One and Yeoman Colt dematerialise
Spock said: The women!
Scene: Pike's cage.
One said: Captain! Captain.
Vina said: No! Let me finish!
One said: But we were a party of six.
Colt said: We were the only ones transported.
Vina said: It's not fair. You don't need them.
Pike said: (grabbing Colt's laser pistol) They don't work.
One said: They were fully charged when we left. It's dead. (communicator) I can't make a signal. What is it?
Pike said: Don't say anything. I'm filling my mind with a picture of beating their huge, misshapen heads to pulp, thoughts so primitive they black out everything else. I'm filling my mind with hate.
Vina said: How long can you block your thoughts? A few minutes, an hour? How can that help?
Colt said: Leave him alone.
Vina said: He doesn't need you. He's already picked me.
Colt said: Picked her? For what? I don't understand.
Vina said: Now, there's a fine choice for intelligent offspring.
Colt said: Offspring, as in children?
One said: Offspring as in he's Adam. Is that it?
Vina said: You're no better choice. They'd have more luck crossing him with a computer.
One said: Well, shall we do a little time computation? There was a Vina listed on that expedition as an adult crewman. Now, adding eighteen years to your age then.
The Magistrate approaches the cell
Vina said: It's not fair. I did what you asked.
Magistrate said: Since you resist the present specimen, you now have a selection.
Pike said: I'll break out of this zoo somehow and get to you. Is your blood red like ours? I'm going to find out.
Magistrate said: Each of the two new specimens has qualities in her favour. The female you call Number One has the superior mind and would produce highly intelligent children. Although she seems to lack emotion, this is largely a pretence. She has often has fantasies involving you.
Pike said: All I want to do is get my hands on you. Can you read these thoughts? Images of hate, killing?
Magistrate said: The other new arrival has considered you unreachable but now is realising this has changed. The factors in her favour are youth and strength, plus unusually strong female drives.
Pike said: You'll find my thoughts more interesting. Thoughts so primitive you can't understand. Emotions so ugly (stricken by pain)
Magistrate said: Wrong thinking is punishable. Right thinking will be as quickly rewarded. You will find it an effective combination.
Magistrate leaves
One said: Captain.
Pike said: No. No, don't help me. I have to concentrate. They can't read through hate.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Address intercraft.
Garison said: Open, sir.
Spock said: This is the acting captain speaking. We have no choice now but to consider the safety of this vessel and the remainder of the crew. We're leaving. All decks prepare for hyperdrive. Time warp factor.
Tyler said: Mister Spock, the ship's controls have gone dead.
The lights go out
Spock said: Engine room!
Garison said: Open.
Spock said: Mister Spock here. Switch to rockets. We're blasting out.
Pitcairn said: All systems are out, bridge. We've got nothing.
Tyler said: There's nothing. Every system aboard is fading out.
Scene: Pike's cell.
The group are apparently dozing when the Magistrate opens the hatch to get the laser pistols Pike dropped there. He grabs him and pulls him into the cage, and starts to throttle him
Pike said: Now you hold still, or I'll break your neck.
Vina said: Don't hurt them. They don't mean to be evil.
Pike said: I've had some samples of how good they are.
the Talosian appears to be a vicious monster
Pike said: You stop this illusion, or I'll twist your head off. (it stops) All right, now you try one more illusion, you try anything at all, and I'll break your neck.
Magistrate said: Your ship. Release me or we'll destroy it.
{Bridge]
The senior officers have taken the navigation console apart
Spock said: Nothing. But for the batteries we'd lose gravitation and oxygen.
Tyler said: The computers!
The monitor shows a montage of images - space capsules, the Moon, maps of Earth
Tyler said: I can't shut it off. It's running through our library. Tapes, micro-records, everything. It doesn't make sense.
Spock said: Could be we've waited too long. It's collecting all the information stored in this fly. They've decided to swat us.
Scene: Pike's cell.
Vina said: He's not bluffing, Captain. With illusion they can make your crew work the wrong controls or push any button it takes to destroy your ship.
Pike said: I'm going to gamble you're too intelligent to kill for no reason at all.
Pike hands the Magistrate over to Number One and picks up the laser pistols, firing them at the glass wall. Then he puts one to the Magistrate's head
Pike said: On the other hand, I've got a reason. I'm willing to bet you've created an illusion this laser is empty. I think it just blasted a hole in that window and you're keep us from seeing it. You want me to test my theory out on your head?
There is a hole in the window
Colt said: Captain.
They all leave through the hole and get into the elevator to the surface
Scene: Planet surface.
The top of the rocky knoll is split apart
Pike said: Make contact, Number One.
One said: They kept us from seeing this, too. We cut through and never knew it. Captain.
The communicator isn't working
Magistrate said: As you see, your attempt to escape accomplished nothing.
Pike said: I want to contact our ship.
Magistrate said: You are now on the surface where we wished you to be. With the female of your choice, you will now begin carefully guided lives.
Pike said: And start by burying you?
Magistrate said: That is your choice. To help you reclaim the planet's surface, our zoological gardens will furnish a variety of plant life.
Pike said: Look, I'll make a deal with you. You and your life for the lives of these two Earth women.
Magistrate said: Since our lifespan is many times yours, we have time to evolve you into a society trained to serve as artisans, technicians
Pike said: Do you understand what I'm saying? You give me proof that our ship is all right, send these two back, and I'll stay with Vina.
Number One sets her laser pistol to overload
One said: It's wrong to create a whole race of humans to live as slaves.
Magistrate said: Is this a deception? Do you intend to destroy yourselves?
Vina said: What is that?
Pike said: The weapon is building up an overload. A force chamber explosion. You still have time to get underground. Well, go on! (pushes Vina away) Just to show you how primitive humans are, Talosian, you go with her.
Vina said: If, if you all think it's this important, then I can't go either. I suppose if they have one human being, they might try again.
More Talosians arrive
Pike said: Wait.
Number One turns off the pistol
Talosian said: Their method of storing records is crude and consumed much time. Are you prepared to assimilate it?
The Magistrate nods, and the veins on his head throb
Magistrate said: We had not believed this possible. The customs and history of your race show a unique hatred of captivity. Even when it's pleasant and benevolent, you prefer death. This makes you too violent and dangerous a species for our needs.
Vina said: He means that they can't use you. You're free to go back to the ship.
Pike said: And that's it? No apologies? You captured one of us, threatened all of us.
Talosian said: Your unsuitability has condemned the Talosian race to eventual death. Is this not sufficient?
Magistrate said: No other specimen has shown your adaptability. You were our last hope.
Pike said: But wouldn't some form of trade, mutual co-operation?
Magistrate said: Your race would learn our power of illusion and destroy itself too.
One said: Captain, we have transporter control now.
Pike said: Let's get back to the ship.
Vina said: I can't. I can't go with you.
Scene: Transporter room.
Pitcairn said: Sir, it just came on. We can't shut the power off.
Spock said: Mister Spock here.
Tyler said: All power has come on, Mister Spock. The helm is answering to control.
The transporter platforms light up and first Colt, then Number One are beamed aboard
Garison said: The captain?
Scene: Planet surface.
Vina changes into a scarred, misshapen older woman
Vina said: You see why I can't go with you.
Magistrate said: This is the female's true appearance.
Vina said: They found me in the wreckage, dying. A lump of flesh. They rebuilt me. Everything works. But they had never seen a human. They had no guide for putting me back together.
Magistrate said: It was necessary to convince you her desire to stay is an honest one.
Pike said: You'll give her back her illusion of beauty?
Magistrate said: And more.
Beautiful Vina and happy Pike go up the slope and into the elevator
Magistrate said: She has an illusion and you have reality. May you find your way as pleasant.
Scene: Transporter room.
Pitcairn said: Mister Spock, the system is coming on again.
Pike is beamed aboard
Colt said: What's happened to Vina?
One said: Isn't she coming with us?
Pike said: No. No, and I agreed with her reasons.
Scene: Bridge.
Pike, Number One and Spock enter
Boyce said: Hold on a minute.
Pike said: Oh, I feel fine, just fine.
Boyce said: You look a hundred percent better.
Pike said: You recommended a rest, a change of pace, didn't you? I've even been home. Does that make you happy?
He bumps into Colt again
Pike said: Yeoman.
Colt said: Yes, sir.
Pike said: I thought I told you that when I'm on the bridge I
She hands him a clip-board stuffed with papers for his signature
Pike said: Oh. Oh yes. The reports. Thank you.
Colt said: Sir, I was wondering. Just curious. Who would have been Eve?
One said: Yeoman! You've delivered your report.
Colt said: Yes, ma'am. Yes, sir.
Tyler said: Eve, sir? Yes, sir.
Boyce said: Eve as in Adam?
Pike said: As in all ship's doctors are dirty old men. What are we running here, a cadet ship, Number One? Are we ready or not?
One said: All decks show ready, sir.
Pike said: Engage.