The Squire of Gothos
Stardate: 2124.5
Original Airdate: 12 Jan, 1967
Scene: Bridge.
A Yeoman is distributing coffees when McCoy enters
Desalle said: All clear ahead, Captain. The sensors indicate zero register.
Kirk said: Forward readings, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Gravimetric readings, no significant change, zero space density.
Kirk said: Ahead warp factor three, Mister Sulu. Colony Beta Six wants their supplies. Let's get across this void in a hurry.
Mccoy said: Void, star desert. The word conjures up pictures of dunes, oases, mirages.
Kirk said: Sunlight, palm trees. We're nine hundred light years from that kind of desert, Bones.
Spock said: The precise meaning of the word desert is a waterless, barren wasteland. I fail to understand your romantic nostalgia for such a place.
Mccoy said: That doesn't surprise me, Mister Spock. I can't imagine a mirage ever disturbing those mathematically perfect brain waves of yours.
Spock said: Thank you, Doctor McCoy. Moving on schedule into quadrant nine oh four. Beta Six is eight days distant.
Kirk said: Something, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Unusual, Captain. I'm now getting a sizable space-displacement reading.
Kirk said: Can you verify that, Navigator?
Desalle said: No, sir. Forward sweeps are negative. Wait. Verified, sir. We must be in some sort of light warp or we'd have picked it up earlier.
Kirk said: Put it on visual.
A purple globe appears on the viewscreen
Desalle said: Iron-silica body, planet sized, magnitude one E. We'll be passing close.
Spock said: Inconceivable this body has gone unnoted on all our records.
Kirk said: And yet, here it is. No time to investigate. Science stations, gather data for computer banks. Uhura, notify the discovery on subspace radio.
Uhura said: Strong interference on subspace, Captain. The planet must be a natural radio source.
Kirk said: Let's get out of its range. Veer forty degrees to starboard, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Forty degrees.
He reaches for the switch, and sways as if dizzy, then stands up and vanishes
Kirk said: Sulu!
He dashes to Sulu's station, then suddenly stops and disappears too
Desalle said: Mister Spock, they're gone!
Spock said: Emergency! Full reverse power!
Ship's log Stardate 2124.5. First Officer Spock reporting for Captain James Kirk. We are orbiting the lone unrecorded planet in the star desert. For four hours, we have made every possible instrument sweep, but Captain Kirk and Helmsman Sulu remain unaccounted for. I have placed the ship on red alert.
Scene: Bridge.
Enterprise is now orbiting a red planet with white whispy clouds
Scott said: We've searched again from stem to stern. If they're not down on that planet, they're nowhere.
Desalle said: No sign of human life on the surface, sir. Unless the instruments aren't functioning.
Spock said: Function is normal. Continuous sensor sweeps. Lieutenant Uhura, have you checked all wave bands?
Uhura said: All of them, Mister Spock. No response.
Desalle said: With due respect, sir. Request permission to transport to the surface immediately and carry out a search.
Mccoy said: I second DeSalle's request. What are we waiting for?
Spock said: The decision will be mine, Doctor. I have the responsibility for your safety. (to Sulu's replacement) Mister Jaeger, describe your geophysical findings for the surface below.
Jaeger said: No detectable soil or vegetation. Extremely hot, toxic atmosphere swept by tornadic storm. Continuous volcanic eruptions. Deadly to any lifeforms such as we know it without oxygen and life-support systems.
Spock said: Estimate survival time of two unprotected individuals down there.
Jaeger said: Not very long.
Uhura said: Mister Spock. Look.
Words are appearing on the monitor above her head, in gothic script. Spock reads them out loud
Spock said: Greetings and felicitations. Hmm. Send this, Lieutenant. USS Enterprise to signaler on planet surface. Identify self.
The reply comes up on the monitor
Spock said: Hip hip hoorah? And I believe it's pronounced tally ho.
Desalle said: Some kind of a joke, sir?
Spock said: I'll entertain any theories, Mister DeSalle. Any at all.
Mccoy said: One thing is certain. Obviously there's life on that planet.
Spock said: You're quite correct, Doctor. Prepare transporter room.
Scott said: Request assignment to the search party, sir.
Spock said: No, Mister Scott. Neither you nor I can be spared here. Mister DeSalle, equip the landing party with full communications, armament, and life-support gear. Mister Jaeger, your geophysical knowledge may be crucial down there. Doctor McCoy will accompany. If those peculiar signals are coming from Captain Kirk or Lieutenant Sulu, their rationality is in question. Dismissed.
Scene: Transporter room.
Uhura said: No more messages from below, sir, but I've locked onto their original source.
Spock said: Very good. Transmit coordinates to Mister Scott. Once on the planet's surface, you'll establish contact with us immediately. Use the laser beacon if necessary. Ready, Scott?
Scott said: Ready, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Activate.
Scene: Planet surface.
The landing party arrive on grass, amidst trees and shrubs. Jaeger starts scanning immediately.
Mccoy said: Where are your storms, Jaeger?
Jaeger said: Atmosphere exactly the same as ours.
He takes of his oxygen mask, sniffs, and signals that the other two can do the same.
Desalle said: DeSalle to Enterprise. DeSalle to Enterprise. It doesn't function. We're cut off.
Mccoy said: (trying his own communicator) No response.
Desalle said: (to Jaeger) Keep trying with yours. Something's blocking the beacon. I've got to find open ground.
He wanders off through the shrubs
Desalle said: Mister Jaeger! McCoy!
They join him to see a stone building in the gothic style, with an iron-bound oak door. They approach cautiously, and enter
Scene: Drawing Room.
The place is stuffed full of things. A bust of Napoleon on a stand, a suit of armour, a globe, tapestry and swords and shields on the walls, an open fire, a harpsichord and a large mirror
Mccoy said: In the name of heaven, where are we?
They head down steps into the room, past the Salt Monster in an alcove
Desalle said: Look.
Sulu and Kirk are displayed in a mini-minstrel's gallery. McCoy scans them.
Mccoy said: There's no reading. They're like waxworks figures.
The main door slams shut, and there's a man in an embroidered coat playing the harpsichord
Trelane said: I must say, they make a perfectly exquisite display pair, but I suppose you want them back now.
He waves his hand and the two men come back to life
Sulu said: Where are we?
Trelane said: Welcome to an island of peace on my stormy little planet of Gothos.
Kirk said: What happened? Fill me in.
Mccoy said: You disappeared from the bridge after Sulu. We've been looking for you for four hours.
Trelane said: You must excuse my whimsical way of fetching you here, but when I saw you passing by I simply could not resist.
Kirk said: I'm Captain James Kirk of the United Starship Enterprise.
Trelane said: Ah, so you're the Captain of these brave lads. My greetings and felicitations, Captain. So good of you and your officers to drop in. Absolutely smashing.
Kirk said: Who are you? Where do you come from?
General Trelane, retired. At your service, sirs. My home is your home.
He goes back to his playing
Desalle said: We've lost contact with the ship, Captain. We're trapped here.
Trelane said: I can't tell you how delighted I am to have visitors from the very planet that I've made my hobby. Yes, but according to my observations, I didn't think you capable of such voyages.
Jaeger said: Notice the period, Captain. Nine hundred light years from Earth. It's what might be seen through a viewing scope if it were powerful enough.
Trelane said: Ah, yes. I've been looking in on the doings on your lively little Earth.
Kirk said: Then you've been looking in on the doings nine hundred years past.
Trelane said: Oh, really? Have I made an error in time? How fallible of me. Oh, I did so want to make you feel at home. I'm quite proud of the detail.
Kirk said: General Trelane.
Trelane said: Retired, sir. Just Squire Trelane now. And you may call me Squire. Yes, I rather fancy that.
Kirk said: For what purpose have you imprisoned us here?
Trelane said: Imprisoned? Nonsense. You're my guests. You see, I just finished my studies of your curious and fascinating society. You came by at the most propitious moment. I want to know all about your campaigns, your battles, your missions of conquest.
Kirk said: Our missions are peaceful, not for conquest. When we do battle, it is only because we have no choice.
Trelane said: Ah, but that's the official story, eh?
Kirk said: I must ask you to let us go back to our ship.
Trelane said: I wouldn't hear of it. You shall join me in a repast. I want to learn all about your feelings on war and killing and conquest. That sort of thing. Do you know that you're one of the few predator species that preys even on itself?
Kirk returns to the main group, where DeSalle has his hand on his phaser
Kirk said: Not yet. Put it on stun, not to kill, DeSalle.
Trelane said: DeSalle, did you say? Un vrai Francais?
Desalle said: My ancestry is French, yes.
Trelane said: Ah, monsieur. Vive la gloire. Vive Napoleon. You know, I admire your Napoleon very much.
Kirk said: This is Mister DeSalle, our navigator. Doctor McCoy, our medical officer. Mister Sulu, our helmsman, and Carl Jaeger, meteorologist.
Trelane said: Welcome, good physicianer and honourable sir. (bows low)
Sulu said: Is he kidding?
Trelane said: Und Offizier Jaeger, und der deutsche Soldat, nein? (gives a little Prussian salute then marches around) Eins, zwei, drei, vier. Gehen vir mit dem Schiessgewehr.
Jaeger said: I'm a scientist, not a military man.
Trelane said: Oh come now. We're all military men under the skin. And how we do love our uniforms.
Trelane is admiring himself in his mirror when he spots DeSalle raising his weapon, and with a wave of the hand, stops him
Trelane said: What an interesting weapon you've got there. Do let me see it.
He takes it out of DeSalle's hand, and he can move again
Trelane said: : Yes. Now let me see. How does this work? Ah, yes. This won't kill, and this will.
He fires it at the Salt Monster, who is disintegrated
Trelane said: Oh, how marvellous! (destroys another exhibit) Devastating! Why, this could kill millions.
Kirk takes it off him
Kirk said: Who will you start with, my crew? Are we your next targets?
Trelane said: Oh, how absolutely typical of your species. You don't understand something, so you become fearful. Now, do let me anticipate your next question. You want to know how I've managed all of this.
Kirk said: That's correct.
Trelane said: We, meaning I and others, have, to state the matter briefly, perfected a system by which matter can be transferred to energy and back to matter again.
Kirk said: Like the transporter system aboard the Enterprise.
Trelane said: Oh, a crude example of an infinitely more sophisticated process. You see, we not only transport matter from place to place, but we can alter its shape at will.
Kirk said: This drawing room, did you create it by rearranging matter on this planet?
Trelane said: Quite.
Kirk said: I see. How did you manage
Trelane said: Dear Captain, your inquiries are becoming tiresome. I want you to be happy. Free yourself of care. Let's enjoy ourselves in the spirit of martial good fellowship.
Kirk said: Come on, let's go. We're getting out of here.
Trelane said: Tut, tut, tut. You're being quite rude. You can't go. Apparently, you need another demonstration of my authority. Yes, quite.
Kirk vanishes from the room and is in the natural atmosphere of the planet, choking on the fumes. Everyone in the room can hear him. Trelane brings him back Now, that's a sample of the atmosphere of this planet outside my kindly influence. Now, you will behave yourself hereafter, won't you? Or I shall be very, very angry.
Captain's Log Stardate 2125.7. Science Officer Spock reporting for Captain Kirk. We have completed fourteenth orbit of this planet without establishing contact with our missing officers or the parties sent to find them. Subspace communications remain blocked. However, by diverting impulse power to our sensors, we have made them operable, and we have detected one small area on the surface which seems relatively stable.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Aye, it's there, Mister Spock. Peaceful as Earth, but how do you explain it?
Spock said: I don't, Mister Scott. It simply exists. Artificial perhaps, or a freak of nature. The fact remains that life can exist in that area.
Scott said: Aye, it could, but it couldn't move around much.
Spock said: Apply a fine tuning on our sensors. Locate any life forms in that stable area.
Scott said: If we find any, it doesn't follow that it would be our people.
Spock said: Affirmative. But if the Captain is down there and alive, that's where he'll have to be. We'll attempt to transport up any living beings our sensors detect.
Scott said: Shooting in the dark, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Or stand by and do nothing, Mister Scott.
Scene: Drawing Room.
Trelane is showing off his decor
And this, of course, is an array of your battle flags and pennants dating back to the Crusades, to Hannibal's invaders, the Grecian war galleys, and the hordes of Persia. Can't you imagine it, Captain? The thousands of men marching off to their deaths, singing beneath these banners. Doesn't it make your blood run swiftly?
Then he goes back to his music
Sulu said: Captain, where could he possibly come from? Who is this maniac?
Mccoy said: Better say, what is he? I monitored him, and what I found was unbelievable.
Kirk said: Not alive?
Mccoy said: Not in the way we define life. No trace. Zero.
Sulu said: You mean, it shows he's dead?
Mccoy said: It doesn't even show that he exists at all, alive or dead.
Jaeger said: Notice the wood fire, Captain? Burning steadily, ember bed glowing, and it doesn't give off any heat at all.
Kirk said: Fire without heat, mistaking all this for present day Earth without taking into account the time differential. Whatever we're dealing with, he certainly isn't all knowledgeable. He makes mistakes.
Trelane said: Discussing deep laid plans, I'll wager. I cannot wait to see them evolve.
Kirk said: Trelane, we haven't planned
Trelane said: Tut tut. Do not think that I deplore your martial virtue of deception and stratagem. Quite the contrary. I have nothing but admiration for your whole species.
Kirk said: If your admiration is genuine, you must have respect for our sense of duty too. Our ship has need of us. We have tasks to perform.
Trelane said: Oh, I can't let you go now. I was getting a bit bored until you came. You must stay. I insist.
Kirk said: For how long?
Trelane said: Until this is over, of course.
Kirk said: Until what is over?
Trelane said: Dear Captain, so many questions. Make the most of an uncertain future. Enjoy yourself today. Tomorrow may never come at all.
Kirk said: Trelane, even if we wanted to stay, our companions are missing us.
Trelane said: Yes, I must experience your sense of concern, your grief at the separation.
Kirk said: There are four hundred men and women aboard that ship.
Trelane said: Women? Do you mean that you actually have members of the fairer sex among your crew? Oh, how charming. And they must be all very beautiful. And I shall be so very gallant to them. Here, let me fetch them down at once.
Kirk said: (grabbing his arm) No.
Trelane said: No?
Kirk said: This game has gone on long enough. Those are crucial operating personnel. You can't
Trelane said: I can do anything I want. I should think you would have realised that by now.
Mccoy said: Captain, receiving a transporter signal.
Trelane said: Transporter signal? What does he mean? You must tell me!
Kirk said: It means, Trelane, the party's over, thanks to Mister Spock.
Trelane said: (as the group is beamed away) Wait! I won't have this! I haven't dismissed you yet. Stop! I won't have this!
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: Everyone to stations. Report, Mister Spock. How were our scanners able to penetrate that radiation field?
Spock said: They didn't, Captain. Not clearly. We merely beamed up all life forms in a given area.
Mccoy said: Which means Trelane is not a life form as we know it, or he'd be beaming through now.
Kirk said: Prepare to warp out of here at once. Maximum speed.
Scene: Bridge.
Ross said: (a blonde yeoman) Oh, Captain, I was so worried.
Kirk said: Scotty, we're going to need every ounce of your engines. We're going to put a hundred million miles between us and that madman.
Scott said: Aye aye, sir.
Mccoy said: I'm quaking, but I don't know if it's from laughter or terror.
Uhura said: Doctor, what was it? What was down there?
Mccoy said: Well, it was a. Oh, forget it.
Ross said: Look.
Trelane has appeared on the Bridge
Trelane said: Where are all your weapons, Captain? Don't you display your weapons?
Kirk said: Trelane.
Trelane said: Don't fret, Captain. I'm only a bit upset with you, but this Mister Spock you mentioned, the one responsible for that unseemly, impudent act of taking you from me, which is he?
Spock said: I am Spock.
Trelane said: Surely not an officer. He isn't quite human, is he?
Spock said: My father is from the planet Vulcan.
Trelane said: And are its natives predatory?
Spock said: Not generally. But there have been exceptions.
Trelane said: Really? You will see to his punishment?
Kirk said: On the contrary. I commend his action.
Trelane said: But I don't like him.
Kirk said: Get off my ship.
Trelane said: Oh, rot! You're all going back with me.
Kirk said: We're not going anywhere.
Trelane said: Nonsense. I have an absolutely enchanting sojourn on Gothos planned for all of you, and you shan't spoil it for me. Anyway, the decor of my drawing room is much more appropriate
Scene: Drawing Room.
A lot of the clutter in the middle of the room has been replaced by a fully furnished dining table and six high-backed chairs. Sulu and DeSalle are already seated
Trelane said: And tasteful. Don't you agree?
Sulu said: No.
Trelane said: But so much more fitting, honourable sir.
Desalle said: (getting up) You
Kirk said: DeSalle.
Trelane 'stops' him
Trelane said: Oh, what primitive fury. Why, he's the very soul of sublime savagery.
Kirk said: Trelane, let him go.
he does, and Sulu grabs DeSalle
Sulu said: We haven't even got our phasers.
Trelane said: Yes, of course. I forget that I shouldn't frighten you too much. But I warn you, you can't provoke me again. Come, everyone. Let's forget your bad manners. Let's be full of merry talk and sallies of wit. We have victuals to delight the palate and brave company to delight the mind. Come, Doctor, do partake. Ah, you've been quite derelict in your social duties, Captain. You haven't introduced me to the charming contingent of your crew.
Kirk said: This is General Trelane.
Trelane said: Retired. But if you prefer, you may address me as the lonely Squire of Gothos, dear ladies.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura of communications.
Trelane said: Ah a Nubian prize. (he kisses her hand) Taken on one of your raids of conquest, no doubt, Captain.
Kirk said: No doubt.
Trelane said: She has the melting eyes of the queen of Sheba. The same lovely colouring. And this. Is this the face that launched a thousand ships and burnt the topless towers of Ilium? Fair Helen, make me immortal with a kiss.
Kirk said: (holding Trelane back) Yeoman Teresa Ross. I believe you have met our science officer Mister Spock.
Trelane said: You do realise, don't you, that it's in deference to the Captain that I brought you here?
Spock said: Affirmative.
Trelane said: I don't know if I like your tone. It's most challenging. That's what you're doing, challenging me?
Spock said: I object to you. I object to intellect without discipline. I object to power without constructive purpose.
Trelane said: Oh, Mister Spock, you do have one saving grace after all. You're ill-mannered. The human half of you, no doubt. (to Ross) Ah, come, my little wood nymph. Won't you dance with your swain? (to Uhura) Give us some sprightly music, my dear girl.
Uhura said: I don't know how to play this.
Trelane said: Of course you do.
And she does, as Trelane dances with Ross
Sulu said: Captain, how far do we go along with this charade?
Kirk said: Until we can think our way out. Meanwhile, we accept his hospitality.
Mccoy said: You should taste his food. Straw would taste better than his meat, and water a hundred times better than his brandy. Nothing has any taste at all.
Spock said: It may be unappetizing, Doctor, but it is very logical.
Mccoy said: There's that magic word again. Does your logic find this fascinating, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Fascinating is a word I use for the unexpected. In this case, I should think interesting would suffice.
Kirk said: You don't find this unexpected, Mister Spock?
Spock said: That his food has no taste, his wine no flavour? No. It simply means that Trelane knows all of the Earth forms, but none of the substance.
Kirk said: And if he's fallible, he can't be all powerful. Which means he has something helping him.
Spock said: Evidently.
Kirk said: A machine? A device? Something which does these things for him.
Trelane said: Ah, my dear, don't we make a graceful pair? Except for one small detail. That dress hardly matches this charming scene.
Suddenly she's wearing an empire line dress with feathers in her hair. Idealised Jane Austen
Trelane said: Ah, yes, that's more what we want. The dashing warrior and his elegant lady.
Kirk said: That mirror. It's part of his audience, his ego. He never wanders from it.
Spock said: Is it ego, or something else?
Kirk said: Explain.
Spock said: The mirror.
Kirk said: What about it?
Spock said: You noted yourself he never gets very far from it. I suppose it could be vanity.
Kirk said: No, no, Mister Spock, that's not the reason. What kind of a machine could do these things?
Spock said: A machine with the ability to turn energy into matter guided by thought waves. It would have a very complex memory bank, and would be extremely sophisticated.
KIRK; Like a computer, only much more. Could the machine that maintains the environment in this immediate area be kept in this house?
Spock said: I think not. A device capable of keeping out this planet's natural atmosphere would be immense.
Kirk said: Good. I agree. That leaves me free
. Spock said: Free, Captain?
Kirk said: If I'm not mistaken, Mister Spock, I think I can turn his lights off at the source. (raises his voice) Don't be too upset by what you see, gentlemen. After all, his actions are those of an immature, unbalanced mind.
Trelane said: I overheard that remark, Captain. I'm afraid I'll have to dispense with you.
Kirk said: You only heard part of it. I just started.
Trelane said: Oh?
Kirk said: Yes. I want you to leave my crewmen alone. I want you to leave my crewwomen alone too. (to Ross) You're not to dance with him. I don't like it.
Trelane said: Does it actually make you angry, Captain?
Kirk said: (removing one of her long gloves) I don't want you accepting his gifts, either.
Ross said: Captain, please don't do this.
Trelane said: Well, I do believe the dear Captain is jealous of me.
Kirk said: I don't care what you believe, just keep your hands off her!
Trelane said: Oh, how curiously human. How wonderfully barbaric.
Kirk said: I've had enough of your insulting attentions to her.
Trelane said: Of course you have. After all, that's the root of the matter, isn't it? You fight for the attention, the admiration, the possession of women.
Kirk said: If it's fighting that you want, (slaps Trelane) you may have it.
Trelane said: Are you challenging me to a duel?
Kirk said: If you have the courage.
Trelane said: Oh, this is better than I'd planned. I shall not shirk an affair of honour.
He gets a box from the mantle-shelf. It contains a pair of duelling pistols
Trelane said: A matched set. Just like the pair that slew your heroic Alexander Hamilton. And Captain, I never miss.
Captain's Log, stardate 2126.1. Delayed report. The whole bridge crew are the unwilling guests of the creature who calls himself Trelane. We are weaponless, powerless, and our only hope of escape with the Enterprise lies in playing his games. I've decided to make my move with the field of honour game, and everything depends on my one chance with the ancient duelling pistol.
Scene: Drawing room.
Trelane said: Oh, how fascinating. I'm party to an actual human duel.
Kirk said: Are you ready?
Trelane said: Quite ready, sir. We shall test each other's courage and then, and then we shall see.
Kirk said: Enough talk. Let's get on with it.
Trelane said: As you will, sir. Honour will be served, eh? Oh, wait! As the one challenged, I claim the first shot.
Kirk said: We shoot together.
Trelane said: It's my game and my rules, but if you need to be persuaded. (aims at Spock)
Kirk said: All right.
Spock said: Captain.
Trelane takes aim, then fires his pistol at the ceiling instead
Trelane said: And now, Captain, how do you have the expression? My fate is in your hands.
So Kirk shoots the mirror and everything goes hay-wire in the room
Trelane said: You've ruined everything!
Spock said: The machine.
Desalle said: Captain, subspace interference is clearing.
Kirk said: Try to contact the ship.
Trelane said: Oh, the remarkable treachery of the species.
Kirk said: Go on, Trelane. Look at it. It's over. Your power is blanked out. You're finished.
Trelane said: You've earned my wrath. Go back. Go back to your ship, all of you, and prepare. You're all dead men. You especially, Captain.
He goes to his mirror, and vanishes
Kirk said: Trelane! Everyone, we're getting out of here. Now. This is the Captain. Commence beaming up. Maximum speed.
Scene: Bridge.
The men are already at their posts when the women arrive, and Yeoman Ross hasn't even got changed yet
Kirk said: Set course for Colony Beta Six.
Sulu said: Laid in, sir.
Kirk said: Full power acceleration from orbit, Mister Scott.
Scott said: Full power, sir.
Kirk said: Emergency warp at the earliest possible moment, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Standing by to warp, sir.
Uhura said: Shall I make a full report to Spacefleet Command, sir?
Kirk said: Not yet. They may trace our beam. Wait until we're well out of range.
Spock said: Can we know his range is, Captain?
Kirk said: We can take an educated guess. At the point we entered their solar system.
Uhura said: Still no sign of pursuit. Instruments clear, sir.
Kirk said: Good.
Ross said: May I take a moment to change?
Kirk said: Yes, I think you might. Turn in your glass slippers. The ball is over.
Ross said: Gladly, Captain.
Kirk said: Hard to believe it ever happened.
Sulu said: Captain, we're about to warp.
Desalle said: Large body ahead.
The planet swims back onto the viewscreen
Spock said: Collision course.
Kirk said: Hard to port, Mister Sulu.
Spock said: That was the planet Gothos, Captain.
Kirk said: Gothos? Mister Sulu, have we been going in circles?
Sulu said: No, sir. All instruments show on course.
Spock said: Gothos again, Captain.
Kirk said: Hard over, Mister Sulu.
Spock said: Cat and mouse game.
Kirk said: With us as the mouse.
Desalle said: There it is again. Dead ahead.
Kirk said: Ninety degrees to starboard, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Turning, Captain. Nut not veering off from it.
Kirk said: Ninety degrees sub-port, Mister Sulu. Adjust.
Sulu said: Turn completed, and still accelerating toward the planet.
Spock said: Or it toward us.
Kirk said: Decelerate into orbit. Prepare transporter room.
Mccoy said: Captain, you're not beaming down.
Kirk said: Yes, I am, Doctor McCoy. I am going to see our playful Mister Trelane and whatever it takes to make him give up our ship. Stand by communications. Mister Spock. If you don't receive a message from me within the hour, leave the vicinity at once. No turning back.
Scene: Courtroom.
The bright drawing-room is now an austere courtroom, with Trelane as the gowned and be-wigged judge
Trelane said: The prisoner may approach the bench.
Kirk said: Trelane.
Trelane said: Any attempt at demonstrations will weigh against you with the court, and this time my instrumentality is unbreakable.
A silhouette of a noose appears on the wall behind Kirk
Kirk said: I've had enough of your games.
Trelane said: Oh, the absurdity of these inferior beings. (reading from the charge sheet) And now, Captain James Kirk, you stand accused of the high crime of treason against a superior authority, conspiracy, and the attempt to foment insurrection. How do you plead?
Kirk said: I haven't come to plead in your court, Trelane.
Trelane said: I warn you. Anything you might say has already been taken down in evidence against you.
Kirk said: I've come for one purpose. To get back my ship.
Trelane said: Irrelevant.
Kirk said: We've made you angry with our will to survive, haven't we?
Trelane said: Uncalled for.
Kirk said: Then vent your anger on me alone. I was the one who led the others. I was the one who shot out your mirror machine.
Trelane said: And did you really think that was the only medium of instrumentality at my command?
Kirk said: I took that chance. I'm willing to pay the price for chancing wrong.
Trelane said: Oh, then you do admit to the charge?
Kirk said: Yes, anything! Just allow the Enterprise to continue its journey. You pompous
Trelane said: Immaterial!
Kirk leaves the dock and goes nose to nose with Trelane
Kirk said: Those people have done you no harm.
Trelane said: Inadmissible!
Kirk said: We're living beings, not playthings for your amusement.
Trelane said: Silence! This trial is over. You are guilty. On all counts, you are guilty. And according to your own laws, this court has no choice in fixing punishment. You will hang by the neck, Captain, until you are dead, dead, dead!
Captain's Log, Stardate 2126.3. First Officer Spock reporting. Still no word from Captain Kirk on the surface below us. Waiting time is almost up. I will soon be forced to attempt departure as per instructions.
Scene: Courtroom.
Trelane said: Until a moment ago, I didn't think it possible, but it was. (takes off his robes and wig) I did it. I was angry. I actually experienced genuine rage. This experiment has been successful.
Kirk said: I'm glad you weren't disappointed.
Trelane said: Why, Captain, you're still angry. Would that I could have sustained that moment. Ah, no matter. Do you have a last request?
Kirk said: Trelane, if you think I'm going to cheerfully and obediently stick my head in that noose
Trelane said: You still haven't learned. You have no choice. Oh, this is becoming quite tiresome. It's all so very easy.
Kirk said: That's your problem, Trelane. Everything is easy. It's given you a bad habit. You're not aware of it, but you have it. You don't think, Trelane. That's your problem. You miss opportunities, like your anger before and mine right now. Oh, you enjoy it, but you couldn't have accomplished it without me, and you know why? Because you're a bumbling, inept fool.
Trelane said: Take care, now.
Kirk said: Here you have an opportunity to experience something really unique, and you're wasting it. You want to commit murder? Go ahead, but where's the sport in a simple hanging?
Trelane said: The sport?
Kirk said: Yes. The terror of murder. The suspense. The fun.
Trelane said: Oh, I'm intrigued. Go ahead, Captain. What do you suggest?
Kirk said: A personal conflict between us. Not like the duel before, but the real thing. The stakes, a human life. Mine.
Trelane said: (waving a sword around) Yes! Yes!
Kirk said: That's the idea.
Trelane said: Oh, then you approve?
Kirk said: Yes, but you can do better than that. There's still not enough sport in just killing me with a sword.
Trelane said: I know. That will be dull. We'll have to have something more fanciful. Let me see. A hunt. A royal hunt. Predator against predator. Now, you may go hide in the forest anywhere you like and I shall seek. How does that strike you, Captain?
Kirk said: It strikes me very well. But you'll have to make it worth my while, Trelane. Why not up the stakes?
Trelane said: The stakes?
Kirk said: Yes. While we're playing our game, free my ship. Let it continue on its way. In return, I'll give you a contest you'll remember.
Trelane said: Always back to your ship. Oh well. If it will add spice to the pursuit, I accept your terms, Captain.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk is outside the building
Trelane said: Remember, you must try not to let me find you too quickly.
Kirk said: Let me notify the Enterprise that it can go.
Trelane said: At your convenience.
KIRK; Enterprise. Enterprise, this is Kirk. Can you hear me? static Get the ship away as fast as you can. I'll try and give you the time you need. Can you hear me?
Trelane appears out of thin air
Trelane said: Ah-ha!
Kirk dodges him and runs into the shrubs
KIRK; Enterprise.
Trelane said: Ah ha! Captain Kirk. You must try harder, Captain. This is too easy.
They keep dodging amongst the shrubs
Kirk said: Enterprise. Enterprise, can you hear me?
Kirk takes an opportunity to get Trelane's sword off him, but when he takes a swing at his foe he just disappears and reappears again
Trelane said: Touche, Captain. Touche. I must confess you scored first. But after all, I never played this game before.
A sword appears in his hand
Trelane said: And now let's have at it again!
Kirk fences Trelane with a branch, but it breaks and he has to run off, leaving Trelane laughing
Scene: Outside the building.
The door will not open
Kirk said: Enterprise. Enterprise.
Trelane said: Ah-ha! Tallyho! (iron grids pen Kirk in) You made a noble fight of it, Captain.
Kirk said: Remember, Trelane. You promised to let my ship go.
Trelane said: Yes, but this is such sport. I must fetch all the others back to play. So this is victory. It has a sweet taste. Down, Captain. On your knees!
Kirk said: You haven't won, Trelane.
Trelane said: I have. I could run you through!
Kirk said: But you haven't won anything.
Trelane said: On your knees, Captain!
Kirk said: No! Does it still taste as sweet?
Trelane said: I order you. You've been beaten.
Kirk said: But I'm not defeated.
Trelane said: I order you! I order you! (Kirk disarms him and snaps the sword across his knee) You broke it! You broke my sword!
Kirk said: You've got a lot to learn about winning, Trelane.
Trelane said: You dare to defy me!
Kirk said: In fact, you've got a lot to learn about everything, haven't you?
Kirk slaps his face
Trelane said: I'll fix you for that! You cheated! You haven't played the game right. I'll show you!
Mother said: Trelane.
Two green flashing lights appear, and Trelane steps into their spotlight
Trelane said: No! No. You said I could have this planet.
Father said: This has gone far enough.
Trelane said: You always stop me when I'm having fun.
Father said: You're disobedient and cruel. We've told you before.
Mother said: Time to come in now, Trelane.
Trelane said: But I don't want to come in, and I won't. I'm a general, and I won't listen to you.
Father said: Enough, Trelane. Come along.
Trelane said: But why? I didn't do anything wrong. I was just playing.
Father said: We said, come along.
Trelane said: But I haven't finished studying my predators yet.
Father said: This is not studying them.
Mother said: If you cannot take proper care of your pets, you cannot have them at all.
Trelane said: Oh, but I was winning. I was winning.
Father said: They're beings, Trelane. They have spirit. They're superior.
Trelane said: No, no. You saw.
Mother said: You'll grow up, Trelane. You'll understand. Now come along.
Trelane said: Oh, but you said I could. You promised. I never have any fun.
Father said: Stop that nonsense at once, or you'll not be permitted to make any more planets.
Trelane said: Oh, but you saw. I was winning. I would have won. Honest.
Father said: No, Trelane.
Mother said: No, Trelane.
The spotlight contracts, and Trelane gradually vanishes
Trelane said: I would have. I would have. I would have. I would. I would. I would. I would.
Father said: Captain, we regret that the life paths of yourself and your companions have been disturbed.
Kirk said: Who are you? Who is Trelane?
Mother said: You must forgive our child. The fault is ours for indulging him too much. He will be punished.
Father said: We would not have let him intercept you had we realised your vulnerability.
Mother said: Forgive us, Captain. We will maintain your life-support conditions while you return to your ship. Please accept our apologies.
The lights disappear
Kirk said: Captain to Enterprise. Captain to Enterprise.
Spock said: Captain, we're receiving you.
Kirk said: Beam me up, Mister Spock. We're free to go.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Warping down, Captain. Our warp factor four.
Desalle said: Approach channels clear, Captain.
Uhura said: Colony Beta Six clears us for normal approach, sir.
Kirk said: Normal orbit approach procedures, Mister Sulu.
Spock said: Captain.
Kirk said: Mister Spock. Still thinking about Trelane, is that it?
Spock said: For the record, how do we describe him? Pure mentality? Force of intellect? Embodied energy? Superbeing? He must be classified, sir.
Kirk said: God of war, Mister Spock.
Spock said: I hardly find that fitting.
Kirk said: Then a small boy, and a very naughty one at that.
Spock said: It will make a strange entry in the library banks.
Kirk said: Then he was a very strange small boy. One the other hand, he was probably doing things comparable to the same mischievous pranks you played when you were a boy.
Spock said: Mischievous pranks, Captain?
Kirk said: Yes. Dipping little girls' curls in inkwells. Stealing apples from the neighbours' trees. Tying cans on
He's stopped by the look of horrified incredulity on Spock's face.
Kirk said: Forgive me, Mister Spock. I should have known better.
Spock said: I shall be delighted, Captain.