Miri
Stardate: 2713.5
Original Airdate: Oct 27, 1966
{Bridge]
Kirk said: Earth-style distress signal. SOS.
Farrell said: I've answered it on all frequencies, sir. They don't reply.
Spock said: Not a vessel, a ground source. The third planet in this solar system, according to my instruments.
Farrell said: Directly ahead. Definitely an Earth-style signal.
Kirk said: We're hundreds of light years from Earth, Mister Spock. No colonies or vessels out this far.
Spock said: Measuring the planet now, Captain. It's spheroid-shaped, circumference twenty four thousand eight hundred seventy four miles. Mass six times ten to the twenty first power tons. Mean density five point five one seven. Atmosphere oxygen, nitrogen.
Rand said: Earth!
Kirk said: Not the Earth, another Earth. Another Earth?
Captain's Log, stardate 2713.5. In the distant reaches of our galaxy, we have made an astonishing discovery. Earth type radio signals coming from a planet which apparently is an exact duplicate of the Earth. It seems impossible, but there it is.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Hold us in a fixed orbit, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Affirmative, Captain.
Kirk said: Still no response, communications?
Farrell said: None, Captain.
Kirk said: We'll beam down. Alert security. Prepare to transport landing party to surface. We'll land in the vicinity of the distress signals now being received.
Scene: Street.
Kirk said: Identical. Earth, as it was in the early 1900s.
Spock said: More the, er, mid-1900s I would say, Captain, approximately 1960.
Rand said: But where is everybody?
Spock said: Readings indicate that natural deterioration has been taking place on this planet for at least several centuries.
Rand said: You mean there's no one alive?
Spock said: Not conclusive, Yeoman. The evidence would suggest that the distress signal is automated.
Mccoy said: Now, this is marvellous. the most horrible conglomeration of antique architecture I've ever seen.
Kirk said: Mister Spock. (comes upon child's tricycle)
Teenager said: Mine! Mine! (attacks McCoy) Mine! Mine! Mine! Mine! Mine! Mine! (Kirk drags him off and hits him several times) It's, it's broke. Somebody broke it. Fix. Somebody, please fix.
Mccoy said: Of course somebody will fix it.
Spock said: Definitely humanoid, in spite of the distortion.
Kirk said: But with the mind of a child. Bones, what is it?
Mccoy said: A seizure of some type.
Kirk said: We want to help you.;
Teenager said: Liar! Never, never, never, never, never, never, never!
Mccoy said: It's dead. It's incredible.
Kirk said: What is?
Mccoy said: Its metabolic rate. It's impossibly high as if it's burning itself up, almost as if it aged a century in just the past few minutes.
Kirk said: (sound of running) Come on!
Scene: House.
Kirk said: How old is this thing?
Spock said: About three hundred years.
Kirk said: (sound in the closet) Come out. We mean you no harm. (opens door)
Miri said: Don't hurt me, please.
Kirk said: I'm not going to hurt you.
Miri said: No, please, don't. I didn't do anything.
Kirk said: I won't hurt you.
Miri said: No, please don't.
Kirk said: I only want to talk to you.
Miri said: No, don't. Don't hurt.
Kirk said: Come on.
Miri said: Don't, please.
Kirk said: I won't hurt you.
Miri said: Don't hurt me.
Kirk said: Come on. It's all right. Come on.
Rand said: We won't hurt you, sweetheart. We're your friends. No, shh!
Kirk said: Take the guards, have a look outside. Radioactive readings, chemical pollutions, any further sign of life.
Spock said: Right, Captain.
Mccoy said: I wonder what happened to her, that she should be so terrified of us.
Someone clears a patch of grime from a window, Spock goes over and peers in
Miri said: But I remember the things you Grups did, burning, yelling, hurting people.
Kirk said: We didn't do anything like that.
Miri said: You're not going to hurt?
Kirk said: Well, of course not. We're here to help.
Miri said: Grups don't help.
Rand said: But we will.
Kirk said: What happened here? Where is everybody?
Miri said: You know.
Kirk said: No, I don't. Won't you tell me?
Miri said: You got a foolie, is that it, and you want me to play, but I can't. I don't know the rules. I've got to know the rules.
Mccoy said: Foolie?
Miri said: A game, you know. You can't play a game without rules. Even Grups ought to know that.
Kirk said: What are Grups?
Miri said: You are. They will, when Onlies get old.
Rand said: Grownups.
Kirk said: You said something about the Grups doing bad things, yelling, hurting, burning.
Miri said: That was when they started to get sick in the before time. We hid, then they were gone. Am I doing all right?
Kirk said: You're doing fine.
Mccoy said: You said the Grups got sick. Is that why there aren't any of them around?
Miri said: Yes. They died, but that was after the awful things.
Mccoy said: A plague, Captain. That could explain a lot of it.
Kirk said: But what about the children, the Onlies? Didn't the awful things affect them?
Miri said: Of course not. We're here, aren't we?
Kirk said: More of you? How many?
Miri said: All there are.
Kirk said: What's your name?
Miri said: Miri.
Kirk said: Miri. A pretty name for a pretty young woman.
Miri said: Pretty?
Kirk said: Very pretty.
Scene: Alleyway.
Spock said: Guards! Cover me.
Children said: Nyah na nyah. (stones are dropped from above) Nyah na nyah. Nyah na nyah. Nyah na nyah. Nyah na nyah. Nyah na nyah. Nyah na nyah. Nyah na nyah. Nyah na nyah. Nyah na nyah!
Scene: House.
Spock said: Children, Captain. Lots of them. We couldn't begin to get close to them. They just seemed to scurry away, like animals. Only children.
Kirk said: Miri said all the adults died.
Mccoy said: That creature which attacked us was certainly no child. Perhaps it died of the disease the girl's talking about.
Kirk said: There must be records somewhere and answers to some of our questions. Miri, do you know any buildings where the doctors used to work?
Miri said: Yes, I know that. Them and their pills and things.
Kirk said: Will you take me there?
Miri said: That's a bad place.
Kirk said: It's important. Please.
Miri said: All right. Do you have a name, too?
Kirk said: Yes. It's Jim.
Miri said: I like that name.
Kirk said: Good. I like yours, too. I like you.
Miri said: Do you really?
Kirk said: I wouldn't lie to you.
Miri said: I wouldn't lie to you, either, Jim. I remember the Grups, but you're nice. You're different.
Kirk said: Why, thank you. (sees a mark on his hand)
Miri said: It's already starting. I knew it would. Just like it did with the Grups. It'll spread all over you, and you'll yell, and you'll try to hurt everybody and then you'll die. I knew it would! I knew it would!
Captain's Log, stardate 2713.6. The building Miri led us to also housed an automatic transmission station, which sent out the signal that drew us to this planet. We also discovered something else. That the blues blotches, characteristic of the unknown disease had appeared on each of us, with the exception of Mister Spock. There was a well-equipped laboratory in the building. Doctor McCoy took tissue samples of each of us in an attempt to isolate the organism responsible.
Scene: Laboratory.
Mccoy said: A veritable zoo of bacteria. Beam down a biocomputer and a portable electronic microscope. If I'm dealing with viruses, I'll need better equipment than I have here.
Scene: Bridge.
Farrell said: Yes, Doctor.
Scene: Laboratory.
Farrell said: Captain Kirk?
Kirk said: Yes, Lieutenant?
Scene: Bridge.
Farrell said: I've got volunteers standing by ready to help you, sir.
Scene: Laboratory.
Kirk said: Under no circumstances do I want anyone to beam down from the ship. We can't take any chances with further contamination.
Farrell said: But Captain, if you become too ill to
Kirk said: My orders still stand, Lieutenant. You can help us best by clearing the computer banks and standing by. Kirk out. Bones, why do you think the symptoms haven't appeared in Mister Spock?
Mccoy said: I don't know. Probably the little bugs or whatever they are have no appetite for green blood.
Spock said: Being a red-blooded human obviously has its disadvantages. Now there you have a museum piece, Doctor. (referring to microscope) Lens type, manually operated, light-activated.
Mccoy said: Spare me the analysis, Mister Spock, please. It is enough that it works.
Miri said: It spreads real fast. I know. When you're old, it covers you like anything.
Kirk said: (reading) Intermediate experimentation report project on life prolongation.
Spock said: Progress report, genetics section, Life Prolongation Project.
Rand said: So that's what it was.
Mccoy said: Life prolongation. Didn't have much luck, did they?
Captain's Log. Doctor McCoy's biocomputer and a portable electronic microscope have been beamed down from the Enterprise. They will be used in conjunction with computer banks on-board ship.
Scene: Laboratory.
Mccoy said: Tubular with extreme multiplicability. Appear to have affinity for nucleic acids. Give me what you have.
Spock said: This was three hundred years ago, Captain.
Kirk said: All the adults are dead. Only the children are left alive.
Spock said: But children become adults.
Kirk said: At least they have up to now.
Spock said: Doctor, there are certain glandular changes which take place upon entering puberty, are there not?
Mccoy said: Of course. It changes the entire body system. You know that. Of course you know that. Why?
Spock said: Is it not possible that these children here, as they enter puberty, contract the disease?
Kirk said: That would explain why there are no adults.
Mccoy said: Glandular, post-pubescent. Could be.
Spock said: It's illogical. It does not follow. All the adults on this planet died three hundred years ago, but there are children in the streets.
Kirk said: Who die when they enter adolescence.
Mccoy said: But how do they keep the line going?
Rand said: One thing, Captain. If she were a wild animal ever since she's been a little girl, how do you explain that she wants to stay with us?
Kirk said: Loneliness? I don't know, curiosity? I think children have an instinctive need for adults. They want to be told right and wrong.
Spock said: There may be other emotions at work in this case, Captain.
Mccoy said: She likes you, Jim.
Spock said: She's becoming a woman.
Scene: Bridge.
Farrell said: Mister Spock.
Scene: Laboratory.
Spock said: Spock here.
Farrell said: Here are those figures you asked for. Twelve to the tenth power. Metabolic rate seventy two percent. Production of nucleic acids reduced to thirty three percent of normal. Conventional chronological progression one hundred by three point six.
Spock said: Acknowledged, Lieutenant. I have their calculations now.
Kirk said: (to redshirts) Try again. See if you can find anything outside. (to Miri) Hey, clean up that desk for me, will you?
Miri said: All right, Jim.
Kirk said: Thank you.
Spock said: According to their life prolongation plan, what they thought they were accomplishing, a person would age only one month for every one hundred years of real time.
Rand said: One hundred years and only one month?
Spock said: Exactly, Yeoman. Evidently through some miscalculation, this virus annihilated the entire adult population in a very short period, leaving only the children.
Rand said: But that means these children
Spock said: Could very well be immensely old.
Kirk said: That would certainly answer the question of what happened to their parents.
Mccoy said: Answers it very well.
Rand said: Children who never age. Eternal childhood, filled with play, no responsibilities. It's almost like a dream.
Kirk said: I wouldn't examine that dream too closely, Yeoman. It might not turn out to be very pretty.
Mccoy said: A few days ago or a week ago that creature that attacked us could have been just like Miri. A child entering puberty on this planet means a death sentence.
Rand said: Do you suppose she knows?
Kirk said: I don't think so.
Rand said: If they're as old as Spock claims, they must have some idea of what's happening.
Kirk said: There's no adult interpretation. I think we're dealing with children. Immensely old perhaps, but nonetheless children. We've got to do something about the others.
Spock said: Difficult, if we can't even get a glimpse of them.
Kirk said: You couldn't get close to the other kids?
Spock said: Impossible. They know the area too well, like mice.
Kirk said: I'm going to try. Miri? Come here. You want to go someplace with me?
Miri said: Sure. (leave, holding hands)
Rand said: That little girl
Spock said: Is at least three hundred years older than you are, Yeoman. Think about it.
Scene: Old Toy Shop.
Jahn said: Miri is with them! Why? Why?;
Red Head Boy said: What's she going to do, Jahn?
Jahn said: I don't, I don't know. I know what we've got to do. There are more of them than we see. Somewhere, up in the sky, maybe, somewhere. They talk to each other all the time. You know Grups. You know what they do, the hurting, the killing.
Red Head Boy said: I remember, Jahn, the way it was.
Jahn said: That's right, the way it was in the before time. They talk to the other Grups with these little boxes. Now, if they didn't have those little boxes, they'd be all alone, huh?
Red Head Boy said: But they don't see us. We hide. Olly olly oxen free!
Children said: Olly olly oxen free! Olly olly oxen free! Olly olly oxen free!
Jahn said: No! It's not a game, it's real. They're dangerous, they're Grups. Don't you understand?
Masked Boy said: Jahn!
Jahn said: (sees Kirk and Miri approach the building) All right, let's hide!
Kirk and Miri come in, then a changing girl appears. The children flee, screaming. The girl jumps Kirk, and he eventually stuns her
Kirk said: Dead. I don't understand it. My phaser wasn't set to kill.
Miri said: Her name was Louise. She was just a little bit older than I am when it happened. Oh, Jim. (she hugs him)
Scene: Laboratory.
Farrell said: Data has been fed into the computers, Mister Spock. Stand by.
Spock said: Acknowledged.
Miri said: (sharpening pencils) Are these enough, Jim?
Kirk said: We could use some more, if you don't mind.
Miri said: No, I don't mind.
Kirk said: There couldn't be any doubt about what you found here?
Spock said: This fellow made these notes in the last weeks after the disaster began. I disregard these last entries. He said himself he was too sick, too far gone to be sure he wasn't already mad, and I agree, but based on the entries he made before that, I know how much time we have. The ship's computers will verify my figures.
Mccoy said: Only a matter of time before we all go mad, destroy each other, till the last of us finally destroys himself.
Kirk said: What about Miri?
Spock said: Our guess was correct. They contract the disease as they enter puberty and their metabolism changes. The notes would indicate it doesn't become acute for a month or so. I estimate she has perhaps five or six weeks left.
Mccoy said: What about us?
Spock said: The older the victim, the more rapid the progress of the disease.
Kirk said: And you? The disease doesn't seem to be interested in you.
Spock said: I am a carrier. Whatever happens, I can't go back to the ship, and I do want to go back to the ship, Captain.
Kirk said: Of course, Mister Spock. We still don't know what we're fighting.
Mccoy said: No, but we know what it is and how fast it does it. It's progressing. We'll begin to feel it inside soon. Intense fever, great pain in the extremities, fuzziness of vision. Of course, those are the early symptoms. There'll be more.
Kirk said: Are You certain about the time we have left?
Spock said: I presume my calculations are correct.
Kirk said: Is there any possibility
Farrell said: Landing party, this is the Enterprise.
Spock said: Spock here.
Farrell said: Computer indicates one hundred seventy hours, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Verified, Captain. We have seven days.
Captain's Log, supplement. This is the second day of the seven left to us. We've found nothing. Enterprise is standing by with labs and computers ready to assist us.
Scene: Laboratory.
Kirk said: There's no data, no starting point.
Mccoy said: I think I've found it.
Kirk said: Janice, take Miri for a walk.
Rand said: Yes, sir.
Mccoy said: Only one half intact.
Kirk said: But do you know what they were up to?
Mccoy said: More or less. The idea was to create a new series of diseases, a chain reaction of viruses meant essentially to extend the life of the human cell immeasurably.
Spock said: Unfortunately, they weren't successful. We've seen the results.
Kirk said: You two will have to recreate their thinking. If you can isolate that virus, we'll be able to develop a vaccine.
Mccoy said: Is that all, Captain? We have five days, you know.
Kirk said: I know.
Children said: Nyah na nyah. Nyah na nyah.
Kirk said: The children! (all dash out, while Jahn sneaks in and collects the communicators from the desks)
[Corridor outside Laboratory}
Kirk said: Anything?
Spock said: No, nothing.
Kirk said: And you? (clunk as grate closes)
Scene: Laboratory.
Spock said: Communicators, Captain, they're gone.
Mccoy said: Jim, We've absolutely got to have those communicators. Without them, we don't have the computers, and without the computers, we don't have a chance.
Captain's Log, stardate 2717.3. Three days, seven hours left to us. Investigation proves that the supply of food in the area is running dangerously low. Unless something is done, the children will starve in a few months. The disease is working on each of us according to Doctor McCoy's prediction. Our tempers are growing short, and We're no further along than we were two days ago.
Scene: Laboratory.
Kirk said: Haven't you found a thing yet?
Mccoy said: Would you like to take a crack at it?
Rand said: (as Kirk pushes past and makes her drop flasks) No! No! No! (runs out, Kirk follows, then Miri)
Scene: Corridor.
Rand said: I'm upset, so upset. Back on the ship, I used to try to get you to look at my legs. Captain, look at my legs. (covered in blotches)
Kirk said: (holds her) We're all frightened. (Miri leaves)
Mccoy said: Jim, I found something!
Scene: Laboratory.
Mccoy said: The last slide I examined, I failed to make the necessary adjustment. The slowing down of my own responses
Kirk said: Never mind that, what did you find?
Mccoy said: The disease, Captain, the one they created three hundred years ago.
Rand said: There's a chance!
Mccoy said: A chance. At least it's a race now, and we've just wasted a minute.
Scene: Old Toy shop.
Jahn said: That would be some foolie, Miri, but do you think it would work?
Miri said: I know. I know. Don't you think I've heard them talk? They have such little time to do this dumb thing of theirs, this baninski thing. If we get her away. that Yeoman, that's one person less to start off with.
Masked Boy said: But how, Miri? If they're so busy, if they're going to have the big emergency, how are you going to get her away?
Miri said: It's easy. She's always asking me about the youngest little Onlies, little ones. What if they get sick, who takes care of them? Do they have enough to eat? Where do they sleep? I'll just tell her one of you fell down and got hurt.
Red Head Boy said: Me. Say it's me.
Miri said: All right, you.
Jahn said: But Grups, they know things and all that. You know, I bet they'll be able to do it with one person less.
Miri said: Not one, two. Because he'll try to find her.
Red Head Boy said: Who? Who will, Miri?
Miri said: The Captain. He'll try to find her, but he won't. Mister Lovey-dovey.
Red Head Boy said: Lovey-dovey. Bonk bonk on the head. Bonk bonk! bonk bonk!
Children said: Bonk bonk! Bonk bonk!
Scene: Laboratory.
Mccoy said: It looks right.
Spock said: The nitrogen cycle, it has to be.
Mccoy said: But the question is, what's the dosage?
Spock said: That is a very good question.
Kirk said: Where is she, Miri? Where is she, Miri? Where's Janice?
Miri said: What's the matter with you? How should I know?
Kirk said: Where is she? Has something happened to her?
Miri said: Don't you feel all right?
Kirk said: No, I don't feel all right! None of us feel all right! Can't you see what's going on?
Miri said: Jim, I don't want anything to happen to you.
Kirk said: I've got to find Janice.
Spock said: That's not all, Captain. We've got to find those communicators.
Kirk said: We're trying, Mister Spock. We're trying very hard.
Mccoy said: That's not good enough! This could be it, but we can't test it without the ship's computers.
Spock said: We've got to have those communicators, Jim.
Kirk said: This is the vaccine?
Mccoy said: That's what the computers will tell us.
Spock said: Without them, it could be a beaker full of death.
Kirk said: Did you hear them? We only have a few hours left.
Miri said: I don't care.
Kirk said: You've got to care. Miri, I'm going to tell you something. You, your friends, all the Onlies are going to get the disease unless we succeed in what we're doing. You've seen your friends get it.
Miri said: Sometimes it happens.
Kirk said: Not sometimes. All the times, Miri! As soon as you start growing up the way you are. Don't you know why you don't like to play games anymore, why you don't see your friends the way you used to? It's because you're becoming a young woman, and the moment you become a young woman, you get the disease. All of you.
Miri said: That's not true. It just happens sometimes.
Kirk said: All the time, Miri! It's happening to you right now! Look at it. Look at it, Miri, it's in you!
Miri said: No! No! No!
Scene: Schoolroom.
Red Head Boy said: Blah, blah, blah!
Jahn said: No, you got the wrong game. A teacher, I told you. Now, what does a teacher say, huh?
Red Head Boy said: Yeah. Study, study, study, or bonk bonk, bad kid. (children all applaud)
Rand said: It's not funny.
Jahn said: It's a foolie.
Rand said: What are you going to do with me?
Jahn said: You think I'd tell you? Miri, you're not supposed to be here.
Miri said: I know.
Jahn said: What's the matter, something go wrong?
Miri said: No.
Jahn said: Okay, then. Don't just stand there in the doorway, come on in.
Miri said: Listen to him.
Jahn said: You listen, Miri.
Miri said: I did. Why do you think I brought him here? Tell them, Jim.
Jahn said: Tell'em, Jim. Tell'em, Jim.
Children said: Tell'em, Jim! Tell'em, Jim! Tell'em, Jim! Tell'em, Jim!
Kirk said: Listen to me. Listen to me!
Jahn said: No yelling in the classroom! Look at him, a very bad citizen.
Kirk said: This isn't a game. It never was a game.
Blonde Girl said: Call the police!
Red Head Boy said: I'm the police. Bonk bonk unless you're good.
Jahn said: You're the teacher.
Red Head Boy said: I got two jobs. Bonk bonk!
Children said: Blah blah blah! Blah blah blah! Blah blah blah! Blah blah blah!
Kirk said: Listen to me! You've got our communicators, the boxes we talk into. We need them to talk to the ship.
Red Head Boy said: Blah blah blah!
Kirk said: No blah blah blah! Because if we don't talk to the ship, if you don't help us, there won't be any games anymore. There won't be anything. Nothing, no Grups, no Onlies, nobody left forever and ever.
Rand said: (sees boy with club coming up behind him) Captain.
Kirk said: Now listen to me. You've got to help us before it's too late. Let Janice go. Give me those communicators before it's too late.
Children said: (approaching menacingly) Nyah na nyah, nyah na nyah, nyah na nyah, nyah na nyah.
Kirk said: You've seen your friends change one by one as they grew up. Did you ever see one of them not change? One by one, they got the disease, and they became like, Iike those creatures you're afraid of, like Louise. One by one they changed and got the disease. The disease like I've got, like Miri has. You understand what I'm talking about. You're not babies. We can help you!
Red Head Boy said: Naughty Grup. (starts hitting Kirk) Bonk bonk! Bonk bonk!
Miri said: No, please. No! (the other children join in as the little blonde girl watches, smiling)
Kirk said: (bleeding) It's waiting for you. It may only be a matter of months.
Miri said: Listen to him. He's telling the truth.
Jahn said: He's funny. He thinks he's funny.
Red Head Boy said: Bonk bonk! Get him!
Kirk said: Look at my arms! That's what's going to happen to you unless you let me help you.
Red Head Boy said: Bonk bonk! Hit him!
Kirk said: And the little ones. What's going to happen to them after you've gone, after you've turned into creatures like Louise? Oh, they'll still be here, but not for long, because the food's all gone. You've eaten it. Maybe six months left, that's all, and then nothing left to eat, nobody left to take care of them. They'll die, too.
Miri said: Look at my arm, Jahn. It's happening to me. He's telling the truth.
Jahn said: They're Grups!
Children said: Bonk bonk! Bonk bonk! Bonk bonk! Bonk bonk!
Kirk said: All right, you want a foolie? All right. I dare you, I double-dare you. Look at the blood on my face. Now look at your hands. Blood on your hands. Now who's doing the hurting? Not the Grups, it's you hurting, yelling, maybe killing, just like the Grups you remember and creatures you're afraid of. You're acting like them, and you're going to be just like them unless you let me help you. I'm a Grup, and I want to help you. I'm begging you, let me help you or there won't be anything left at all. Please.
Scene: Laboratory.
Mccoy said: We can't wait for those communicators any longer.
Spock said: We must. The vaccine could be fatal.
Mccoy said: The disease certainly is. How long do we have left? Hours, minutes? How much longer do you want to wait?
Spock said: Bickering is pointless. I'll check on the Captain's progress.
Spock leaves. McCoy picks up the hypospray and injects himself, then collapses in agony
Mccoy said: Spock!
Galloway said: Is he dead, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Not yet.
Kirk said: (with children and communicators) Three hours, eleven minutes left. Thank you, Lieutenant. Keep this channel open. Clear your computers. What happened to him?
Spock said: He injected himself with the vaccine. He was unconscious when I found him.
Kirk said: Look at his face.
Spock said: The blemishes are fading. They're fading. Who will understand the medical mind?
Jahn said: Is this supposed to be a good thing, Miri?
Miri said: Of course it is.
Scene: Bridge.
Rand said: They were just children. Simply to leave them there with a medical team
Kirk said: Just children, three hundred years old and more. I've already contacted Space Central. They'll send teachers, advisers.
Mccoy said: And truant officers, I presume.
Kirk said: They'll be all right.
Rand said: Miri. She really loved you, you know.
Kirk said: Yes. I never get involved with older women, Yeoman. Mister Spock?
Spock said: Captain?
Kirk said: Full ahead. Warp factor one.
Spock said: Warp factor one, Captain.