Tomorrow is Yesterday
Stardate:
3113.2
Original Airdate: 26 Jan, 1967
Scene: US Air Force base - radar room.
Webb said: (the radar operator) Captain.
Captain said: What is it, Webb?
Webb said: A blip, sir. Just came on the screen.
Captain said: How do you read it?
Webb said: Aircraft of some sort. By the size of it and the speed, it's not one of ours, sir. It doesn't even read like anything I've ever seen.
Captain said: What was the approach?
Webb said: None, sir. It was just there, like it fell out of the sky or something.
Captain said: (suddenly interested) Current position?
Webb said: Directly over the Omaha installation, sir. Holding there.
Captain said: Watch the scope, Webb. Air Defence will want to send somebody up for a closer look. We may have a real UFO on our hands.
The alert sounds, a fighter is scrambled, and we get a shot of the USS Enterprise flying across the blue sky.
Captain 's log Stardate 3113.2. We were en-route to Starbase 9 for resupply when a black star of high gravitational attraction began to drag us toward it. It required all warp power in reverse to pull us away from the star. But, like snapping a rubber band, the breakaway sent us plunging through space, out of control, to stop here, wherever we are.
Scene: Bridge.
The crew are picking themselves and their chairs up off the floor
Kirk said: Mister Spock.
Spock said: Except for secondary systems, everything is out, sir. We're on impulse power only.
Kirk said: Auxiliaries?
Spock said: If Mister Scott is still with us, auxiliaries should be on momentarily. (Uhura is just stirring on the floor) Are you all right, Lieutenant?
He helps her back to her seat, and the lights come on.
Spock said: Mister Scott is still with us.
Kirk said: This is the Captain. Damage control parties on all decks, check in. All departments tie in with the record computer. Report casualties and operational readiness to the First Officer. Kirk out. Lieutenant Uhura, contact Starfleet Control. I want them alerted to the position of that black star that's in the area of Starbase 9.
Uhura said: Yes, sir.
Spock said: Captain? Casualty reports indicate only minor injuries. Engineering reports warp engines non-operational. Mister Scott overrode the automatic helm setting and is holding us in orbit on impulse power.
Kirk said: Orbit where?
Spock said: Earth, Captain. We were on a general course in this direction when we were pulled in by the star. Apparently the breakaway threw us on in the same direction.
Kirk said: Screen on.
A full view of north America is on screen, with not a cloud in sight.
Spock said: We are too low in the atmosphere to retain this orbit, Captain. Engineering reports we have sufficient impulse power to achieve escape velocity.
Kirk said: Give us some altitude, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Yes, sir. Helm answering. She's sluggish, sir.
Uhura said: Captain, normal Starfleet channel has nothing but static. I'm getting something on another frequency, but it's not Starfleet.
Kirk said: Put it on audio.
Man said: This is the five thirty news summary. Cape Kennedy. The first manned Moon shot is scheduled for Wednesday, six am Eastern Standard Time. All three astronauts who are to make this historic
Kirk signals it cut off
Kirk said: Manned Moon shot? That was in the late 1960s.
Spock said: Apparently, Captain, so are we.
Kirk said: What?
Spock said: Whiplash propelled us into a time warp, Captain. Backward. Exact chronometer readings in a few moments.
Uhura said: Captain, I'm getting ground to air transmission.
Spock said: Verified. Scanners report some type of craft approaching from below us. Under cloud cover and closing.
Scene: Jet fighter.
Flight said: Bluejay 4, this is Blackjack. We're tracking you and the UFO.
Christopher said: I have him on my screen. Following.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu, can you gain altitude faster? I want to outdistance him.
Sulu said: Picking up, sir, but she's still slow in responding.
Scene: Jet fighter.
Christopher said: Blackjack, this is Bluejay 4. UFO is picking up speed and climbing. I'm going in closer.
Flight said: Bluejay 4, you should be close enough for visual contact.
Christopher said: I can see it now. Whatever this is, it's big. Two cylindrical projections on top, one below. Purpose undetermined.
Flight said: We have two flights scrambled and on the way. They should rendezvous in your sector in two minutes.
Christopher said: I won't be here. The UFO's climbing away fast.
Scene: Bridge.
Flight said: Bluejay 4, you are ordered to close on the UFO. and attempt to force him to land. We want it brought down or at least disabled until the other planes arrive.
Christopher said: Acknowledged. Closing on target.
Spock said: Positive identification, Captain. Aircraft is an interceptor, equipped with missiles, possibly armed with nuclear warheads. If he hits us with one, he might damage us severely, perhaps beyond our capacity to repair under current circumstances.
Kirk said: Scotty, activate tractor beam. Lock onto that aircraft and hold it out there.
Spock said: Captain, this type of aircraft might be too fragile to take our tractor beam.
Scott said: Tractor beam on, sir. We have the target.
The bright light of the tractor beam forces Captain Christopher to lower his visor
Spock said: Aircraft is breaking up, Captain.
KIRK; Transporter room. Can you lock onto the cockpit of that aircraft?
Kyle said: Scanning area, sir.
Kirk said: Try and beam that pilot aboard. Take over, Mister Spock.
Scene: Transporter room.
From his seated position strapped into his fighter, Captain Christopher is beamed aboard standing up.
Kirk said: Welcome aboard the Enterprise.
Christopher said: You speak English.
Kirk said: That's right. You can step off the transporter
Christopher said: Captain John Christopher, United States Air Force. Serial number 4857932.
Kirk said: Relax, Captain, you're among friends. I'm Captain James T. Kirk.
Christopher said: What's going on here? Where am I? What happened? You people, who are you?
Kirk said: All in good time, Captain. Meanwhile, let me apologise for bringing you aboard the ship so abruptly, but it couldn't be helped. I didn't know that your craft couldn't stand up to our tractor beam.
Christopher said: Don't give me any double-talk. Just tell me who you are.
Kirk said: We'll tell you what we decide to tell you in a few moments. In the meantime, relax. You're our guest. I have a feeling you'll find it interesting.
Spock said: Bridge to Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Kirk here. What is it, Mister Spock?
Spock said: The aircraft has completely broken up, Captain. Shall we turn off the tractor beam?
Kirk said: Affirmative. We have the pilot aboard. I'll be right up. Kirk out. Follow me.
Scene: Corridor.
Crewwoman said: Good morning, Captain.
Kirk said: Morning. (drags Christopher along) Captain.
Christopher said: A woman?
Kirk said: Crewman.
Scene: Turbolift.
Kirk said: Bridge.
Christopher said: Must have taken quite a lot to build a ship like this.
Kirk said: There are only twelve like it in the fleet.
Christopher said: I see. Did the Navy
Kirk said: We're a combined service, Captain. Our authority is the United Earth Space Probe Agency.
Christopher said: United Earth?
Kirk said: This is very difficult to explain. We're from your future. A time warp placed us here. It was an accident.
Christopher said: You seem to have a lot of them. However, I can't deny the fact that you're here. With this ship.
Scene: Bridge.
Christopher said: I never have believed in little green men.
Spock said: Neither have I.
Kirk said: Captain Christopher, this is my First Officer, Lieutenant Commander Spock.
Spock said: Captain.
Kirk said: Feel free to look around, Captain. Don't touch anything, but I think you'll find it interesting.
Christopher said: Interesting is a word and a half for it, Captain.
Spock said: We've achieved a stable orbit out of Earth's atmosphere. Our deflectors are operative, enough to prevent our being picked up again as a UFO. And Mister Scott wishes to speak to you about the engines.
Kirk said: Very well, Mister Spock. Anything else on your mind?
Spock said: Captain Christopher.
Kirk said: What about him?
Spock said: We cannot return him to Earth, Captain. He already knows too much about us and is learning more. I do not specifically refer to Captain Christopher, but suppose an unscrupulous man were to gain certain knowledge of man's future? Such a man could manipulate key industries, stocks, and even nations. and in so doing, change what must be. And if it is changed, Captain, you and I and all that we know might not even exist.
Kirk said: Your logic can be most annoying.
Goes over to Christopher, who is talking to Uhura.
Kirk said: That flight suit must be uncomfortable. (to Spock) Why don't you have the quartermaster issue him something more suitable? Then I want to meet you and him in my quarters.
Spock said: Yes, sir.
{Captain's quarters]
Kirk said: Computer on. Record.
Computer said: (in a low, breathy voice) Recording.
Kirk said: Come.
Spock enters with Christopher, who is now dressed in Command gold
Kirk said: Captain's log, supplemental. Engineering Officer Scott informs warp engines damaged, but can be made operational and reenergised.
Computer said: Computed and recorded, dear.
Kirk said: Computer, you will not address me in that manner. Compute.
Computer said: Computed, dear.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, I ordered this computer and its interlinking systems repaired.
Spock said: I have investigated it, Captain. To correct the fault will require an overhaul of the entire computer system and a minimum of three weeks at a Starbase.
Kirk said: I wouldn't mind so much if it didn't get so affectionate.
Spock said: It also has an unfortunate tendency to giggle.
Christopher said: I take it that a lady computer is not routine.
Spock said: We put in at Cygnet Fourteen for general repair and maintenance. Cygnet Fourteen is a planet dominated by women. They seemed to feel the ship's computer system lacked a personality. They gave it one. Female, of course.
Christopher said: Well, you people certainly have interesting problems. I'd love to stay around to see how your girlfriend works out, but;
Kirk said: I'm afraid you'll have to. We can't send you back.
Christopher said: Can't? Spock here told me that your transporter can beam down an object even from an orbit this high.
Kirk said: It's not the transporter. It's you. You know what the future looks like. If anybody else finds out, they could change the course of it, destroy it.
Christopher said: Well then my disappearance would change something, too.
Spock said: I have run a computer check on all historical tapes. They show no record of any relevant contribution by John Christopher.
Christopher said: Look, Captain, I don't buy all your time accident story. The experts can figure out who you are and what you are. It's my duty to report what I've seen. Well, what would you do?
Kirk said: I'd report, If I could. We can't take the risk.
Christopher said: I don't want to know about risks. I have a wife, two children. What about them?
Kirk said: I'm sorry.
Scott said: Engine room to Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Scene: Engineering.
Kirk said: What is it, Scotty?
Scott said: Progress report, sir. Everything's jury-rigged, but we're coming along with the repairs. We could re-energise in about four hours, but
Scene: Captain's quarters.
Kirk said: But what, Scotty?
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: Well sir, as I say, the engines are being repaired, but we've no place to go in this time. If you, if you see what I mean?
Scene: Captain's quarters.
Scott said: Sir?
Kirk said: Yes, Scotty. Carry on.
Christopher said: Too bad, Captain. Maybe I can't go home, but neither can you. You're as much a prisoner in time as I am.
Captain's Log Stardate 3113.7. Our engines are being repaired, but we are still locked in time, and we have aboard a passenger whom we do not want, and we cannot return.
Scene: Captain's quarters.
Computer said: Recommendation for his disposition, dear?
Kirk said: Maintenance note. My recording computer has a serious malfunction. Recommend it either be corrected or scrapped. Compute.
Computer said: (petulant) Computed.
Spock said: Bridge to Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Spock said: Have some new information regarding Captain Christopher. Important I see you both immediately.
Kirk said: Yes, Mister Spock. Report to my quarters. I'll contact Captain Christopher.
Spock said: Yes, sir. Bridge out.
Kirk said: Captain Christopher. Captain Christopher? Security, this is the Captain.
Chief said: Security Chief here, sir.
Kirk; All decks alert. Captain Christopher is not in his assigned quarters. He may be trying to escape the ship. I want a man outside the transporter room immediately. I'm heading there myself.
{Corridor]
Christopher gets the jump on a hapless red-shirt and takes his phaser, then steps into
{Transporter room]
Christopher said: All right. Nice and easy. Now I'm going to step into that thing, and you're going to transport me back to Earth.
He hears a noise behind him, and turns to have Kirk disarm him and knock him out
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: Well, Jim, with the exception of a slight bruise or two, our Captain is as healthy as a proverbial horse. He'll be coming out of it in a minute or two.
Kirk said: He tried to escape. I know how he feels, but I can't send him back with what he knows.
Mccoy said: Jim, what if we can't go back? What do we do, sit up here and wait for our supplies to run out, our power to die? It has to eventually, you know. We certainly can't go back to Earth. It would be worse than the Captain being returned. There are four hundred and thirty of us, and that means four hundred and thirty chances of altering the future.
Kirk said: Yes. But we're not in that position yet.
Mccoy said: I'm glad to hear it.
Kirk said: And if we do get back to where we belong, then he won't belong. We're roughly about the same age, but in our society he'd be useless. Archaic.
Mccoy said: Maybe he could be retrained, reeducated.
Kirk said: Now you're sounding like Spock.
Mccoy said: If you're going to get nasty, I'm going to leave.
Kirk said: Could he be retrained to forget his family? His children?
Christopher said: The answer to that is no.
Kirk said: You all right?
Christopher said: Yeah. I see physical training is required in your service, too.
Spock said: Crude methods, but effective.
Christopher said: What does he mean by that?
Mccoy said: It's just a joke, Captain.
Kirk said: You said you had some additional information, Mister Spock?
Spock said: I made an error in my computations.
Mccoy said: Oh? This could be an historic occasion.
Spock said: I find that we must return Captain Christopher to Earth after all.
Christopher said: Why? You said I made no relative contribution.
Spock said: Poor choice of words on my part. I neglected, in my initial run-through, to correlate the possible contributions by offspring. I find, after running a crosscheck on that factor, that your son Colonel Shaun Geoffrey Christopher headed, or will head, the first successful Earth-Saturn probe, which is a rather significant
Christopher said: Wait a minute. I don't have a son.
Mccoy said: You mean yet.
Spock said: The doctor is correct. Unless we return Captain Christopher to Earth, There will be no Colonel Shaun Geoffrey Christopher to go to Saturn.
Kirk said: Well, that's it, isn't it? We'll have to find some way of
Christopher said: A boy. I'm going to have a son.
Scene: Briefing room.
Spock said: Acknowledging that we must return Captain Christopher, there are several problems, prime of which is the explanation of his return. We tracked his plane wreckage down after our tractor beam crushed it. It crashed in an open section of southern Nebraska.
Kirk said: That means those search parties will be crawling all over that wreckage.
Spock said: And Captain Christopher himself complicated the matter.
Christopher said: When I made visual contact, I turned on my wing cameras. I got close enough to take some pretty clear pictures of you. Air Defence Command will be processing that film fast. And ADC Control was probably recording my radio transmissions.
Kirk said: If I remember my history, these things were being dismissed as weather balloons, sun dogs, explainable things. At least publicly.
Spock said: Captain, our tractor beam caught and crushed an Air Force plane. It'll be impossible to explain this as anything other than a genuine UFO. Possibly alien, definitely destructive.
Kirk said: What about our problem, Mister Spock? Any ideas on how to get us back to our own time?
Spock said: A theory. A reverse application of what happened to us. Logically, it could work. Also, logically, there are a hundred variables, any one of which could put us in a worse position than we're in now.
Kirk said: We're going to have to go back and get those reports and photos. If the Captain feels duty bound to report what he saw, there won't be any evidence to support him.
Christopher said: That makes me out to be either a liar or a fool.
Kirk said: Perhaps.
Spock said: Not at all. You'll simply be one of the thousands who thought he saw a UFO.
Christopher said: Captain, I know that base. I was stationed there a year ago. I'd like to
Kirk said: No, Captain. Thank you, but if anything should go wrong, you might get hurt. We couldn't risk that. Neither could you or your son.
Christopher said: Well, I'd like to help. I could sketch a layout of the place for you. Show you where the record section and the photo lab are.
Kirk hands him a PADD
Scene: 498 Airbase Group Air Defence Command.
It's nighttime, and a guard is patrolling the corridors when Kirk and Sulu beam in. They smile at the quaint notice board and trophy cupboard before breaking into the Statistical Services Division by means of a sort of sonic screwdriver. Kirk's torch lights up a bank of magnetic tapes
Kirk said: Primitive computer. I've seen them demonstrated in museums.
Sulu said: Me, too. If this one's like those, it'll make the devil's noise if you start it.
Kirk said: I don't intend to start it.
Scene: Transporter room.
Mccoy said: How long have they been down there now?
Spock said: Fifteen minutes, twenty eight seconds.
Mccoy said: Well, shouldn't they be coming up?
Spock said: It is a fact, Doctor, that prowling by stealth is more time-consuming than a direct approach. In our case
Mccoy said: Shouldn't you be working on your time warp calculations, Mister Spock?
Spock said: I am.
Scene: ADC Statistical Services.
They've just taken the magnetic tape when the lights go on and an armed guard confronts them
Sergeant said: Hold it. Get your hands up. Now, one at a time, hand me those belts.
They hand over the belts with the phasers attached to them
Sergeant said: And the bag.
Scene: Transporter room.
Mccoy said: It's been too long. Jim should have at least signaled by now.
Spock said: You may be correct, Doctor. Open communicator channel.
Scene: ADC Statistical Services.
There's a beeping sound
Sergeant said: What was that?
Kirk said: What was what?
Sergeant said: That noise.
Sulu said: I didn't hear anything.
Sergeant said: That noise. It's coming from one of these things.
He has a communicator in his hand, so he puts down the bag and belts and opens it.
Sulu said: The emergency signal.
Sergeant said: Stay right where you are.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kyle said: One emergency signal, sir.
Spock said: Beam up immediately.
Mccoy said: Only one signal. What happened?
Spock said: We'll know in a moment, Doctor.
The Sergeant is beamed aboard.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise.
Spock said: Spock here. Are you all right, Captain?
Scene: ADC Statistical Services.
Kirk said: Yes, I'm all right, but as you can see, we have another problem.
Captain 's Log, Stardate 3113.9. First Officer Spock recording. Due to an unfortunate accident, we have taken aboard another unwanted passenger.
Scene: ADC Statistical Services.
Kirk said: Your surprise package is an Air Police sergeant from the base.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: I want you to keep him in the transporter room. No sense in letting him see more of the ship than is necessary.
Spock said: I don't believe there'll be trouble in that respect, Captain.
The Sergeant still hasn't hardly moved a muscle when McCoy gently takes the gun and communicator out of his hands.
Spock said: Our guest seems quite satisfied to remain where he is.
Scene: ADC Statistical Services.
Kirk said: Kirk out. (returns to the magnetic tapes) What was the chronometer reading when we first sighted Christopher's jet?
Sulu said: Five thirty in that time zone, maybe a little after.
Kirk said: Put it at the end of these tapes, will you? Get them all.
They leave the room and head off down the corridor to the photo section
Scene: Photo lab.
Kirk said: We'll try the darkroom.
Scene: Guard room.
On the monitor board, a light flashes on the board, indicating someone has entered the Photo Section
Fellini said: Photo lab.
Scene: Dark room.
Kirk is checking reels of film
Kirk said: Yes, that's it. That's all of them. Signal Mister Spock that we're almost ready to beam up. I'll make a check of the files just in case.
Sulu said: Yes, sir.
Scene: Photo lab.
Kirk walks out into the main lab just as security walk in. He shuts the door behind him and fights the three men, making lots of noise so Sulu can hear what is going on. He's eventually restrained, and the Colonel takes a look in the dark room. It's empty.
Fellini said: All right. Where's the other one?
Kirk said: What other one?
Fellini said: Your partner. I saw you looking that was and I saw somebody move in there.
Kirk said: No, no, no. Just me. Besides, could anyone get out of here without your seeing them?
Fellini said: No. Nobody should have been able to.
Scene: Briefing room.
Spock said: Your decision to beam up was quite correct, Mister Sulu.
Scott said: Engine room to Mister Spock.
Spock said: Spock here.
Scott said: We've completed re-energising the warp engines, sir. We can re-fire them anytime.
Spock said: Do so now, engineer. We'll need all power to test our theory.
Scott said: Aye, sir. Engine room out.
Spock said: (examining a roll of film) Poor photography.
Mccoy said: Blast your theories and observations, Mister Spock. What about Jim? He's down there alone, probably under arrest. He doesn't have a communicator, and we can't locate him or beam him back aboard without one.
Spock said: I am aware of that, Doctor. This is the first officer. Captain Christopher to the briefing room.
Scene: Guard room.
Fellini said: Now, look, Mister. You and I had better start communicating. I want to know how you got in here. That's a simple question. Give me a simple answer. Nobody saw you. You got all the way inside without tripping any alarm. How did you do it?
Kirk said: Believe me, Colonel, you wouldn't believe me.
Fellini said: Don't try to be funny. How did you get in?
Kirk said: I popped in out of thin air.
Fellini said: You seem to think this is some kind of a game.
Kirk said: No, Colonel. I know it's no game.
Fellini said: All right. What did you say your name was?
Kirk said: For the fourth time, my name is James T. Kirk.
Fellini said: And how did you get inside a top security installation, James T. Kirk?
Kirk said: I told you, you wouldn't believe me.
The Colonel picks up the communicator
Kirk said: Colonel, would you mind being careful with that?
Fellini said: That worries you a little bit, huh? What is that, a radio? Transmitter of some kind?
Kirk said: Of some kind.
Fellini said: You can be more specific than that, Kirk. I don't like mysteries.
Kirk said: If you don't stop being careless with that, you'll have one. A big one.
Fellini said: I'll have it disassembled and examined. We are not dummies, mister. We know how to find out things we want to know. (tosses it to the guard standing nearby) What is that? Is that a uniform of some kind?
Kirk said: This little thing? Just something I slipped on.
Fellini said: Kirk, maybe you don't realise how serious this is. Sabotage of a government installation
Kirk said: Did I sabotage something?
Fellini said: No. We stopped you in time. But what would you have done if we hadn't found you?
Kirk said: Believe me, Colonel, nothing at all.
Fellini said: Is that what you're here for? Nothing at all?
Kirk said: That's what would have happened if you hadn't interfered.
Fellini said: All right, Kirk. Maybe this will make you laugh. Sabotage, espionage, unauthorised entry, burglary. How are those for starters? And I can think up lots more if you don't start talking.
Kirk said: All right, Colonel. The truth is, I'm a little green man from Alpha Centauri. A beautiful place. You ought to see it.
Fellini said: I am going to lock you up for two hundred years.
Kirk said: That ought to be just about right.
Scene: Briefing room.
Christopher said: He's probably being held in security section. Even if they've notified the authorities, it'll take a little time for someone to get there.
Spock said: Quite logical, Captain. Can you give us the co-ordinates to beam down a landing party near those interrogation rooms?
Christopher said: Yes, but you're not going to get them unless you take me with you.
Spock said: I can't do that, Captain.
Mccoy said: If something went wrong
Christopher said: Something's already gone wrong. Of course, you could beam down anywhere inside that base, but it would take time to find him.
Spock said: Mister Sulu, you and Captain Christopher will beam down with me. The captain will provide the co-ordinates for the transporter chief.
Sulu said: Shall I issue phasers?
Spock said: One for you, one for me. Set them on heavy stun force.
Sulu said: Yes, sir. (leaves)
Christopher said: You don't trust me, Spock.
Spock said: In fact, I do. But only to a certain point.
Scene: Transporter room.
Spock said: Energise.
The party are beamed down
Sergeant said: Do they do that all the time?
Kyle said: Are you hungry?
Sergeant said: Uh-huh.
Kyle said: What would you like?
Sergeant said: Maybe some chicken soup.
Kyle puts a card in the slot and the hatch slides up to reveal a bowl on a tray. The Sergeant dips his finger in to taste it. SERGEANT: It is.
Scene: Air Base - Corridor.
Captain Christopher walks past the guard on duty
Guard said: Just a minute, sir. Hold it.
Sulu karate-chops him into unconsciousness
Scene: Guard room.
There's a knock at the door
Fellini said: See what that is, airman.
It's Spock, who neck-pinches the hapless airman. Kirk punches Lt. Colonel Fellini's lights out. SPOCK: Don't you find that painful, Captain?
Kirk said: Yes, I do. What's he doing here?
Spock said: He knew the exact beam down co-ordinates for this section of the base. It was necessary to bring him along.
Kirk said: I see. No harm done. Mister Sulu, did you check out those tapes?
Sulu said: Mister Spock ran them through. They were the right ones. We got them all.
Spock goes into the Colonel's office
Christopher said: They know you've been here.
Kirk said: All they have is a mystery and no answers. Mister Sulu, signal the Transporter Chief. Four to beam up.
Sulu said: Yes, sir.
Christopher said: (holding the security guard's gun) Uh-uh. Not me.
Kirk said: Don't be a fool. You know what's at stake.
Christopher said: You bet I do. My family. A son that isn't born yet. You don't have to return me now, Captain. Spock, come out of there.
Kirk said: You can't explain your presence on the base.
Christopher said: I told you it's my duty to report everything I've seen. That's explanation enough. Spock!
Kirk said: You'll go home, Christopher but you'll do it our way.
Spock appears in the doorway behind Christopher
Christopher said: Over my dead body.
So he gets neck-pinched into unconsciousness
Spock said: I suspected he might not wish to return with us.
Kirk said: Four to beam up, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Yes, sir.
Captain's Log, Stardate 3114.1. We must make an attempt to break free of this time, or we and our reluctant passengers will remain its prisoners. All we have is a theory and a few facts.
Scene: Briefing room.
Spock said: Mister Scott and I both agree that the only possible solution is the slingshot effect, like the one that put us here. My computations indicate that if we fly toward the sun, seek out its magnetic attraction, then pull away at full power, the whiplash will propel us into another time warp.
Christopher said: Slingshot effects are fine for you people. How do you propose to return the Sergeant and me?
Spock said: Logically, as we move faster and faster toward the sun, we'll begin to move backward in time. We'll actually go back beyond yesterday, beyond the point when we first appeared in the sky. Then, breaking free will shoot us forward in time, and we'll transport you back before any of this happened.
Kirk said: You won't have anything to remember, because it never would have happened.
Christopher said: What if you can't pull free of the sun?
Scott said: Oh, we'll do that all right, Captain. We'll not be getting so close that my engines couldn't pull us out. What I am worried about, sir, that we may not have much control when we're thrown forward again.
Kirk said: Helm control?
Scott said: Braking control, sir. If I can't stop us soon enough, we may overshoot our time, and if I stop the engines suddenly the strain may tear us apart. Anyway we do it, it's a mighty rough ride.
Kirk said: Well, gentlemen, we all have to take a chance. Especially if one is all you have. Assume your stations.
Scene: Bridge.
Enterprise leaves orbit, and we watch the pretty blue and white globe receding on the viewscreen.
Kirk said: Ahead warp factor three, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Warp factor three, sir.
Christopher said: I never thought I'd make it into space. I was in line to be chosen for the space programme but I didn't qualify.
Kirk said: Take a good look around, Captain. You made it here ahead of all of them.
Sulu said: Sir, our speed is increasing. We're travelling at over warp eight.
Kirk said: Mister Spock.
Spock said: Since we've passed Mercury, the sun's pull on us has increased greatly. From here, we'll move even faster. And Captain, notice the chronometers. They've started backward. Minute by minute, the speed of time passage will now increase.
Kirk said: Get your gear. Report to the transporter room. And Captain Christopher, you only have about fifteen years, so you'd better hurry.
Christopher leaves, and time passes.
Spock said: Approaching breakaway point. On the countdown. Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one.
Kirk said: Now, Mister Sulu. (the ship lurches sideways) More power, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: It's maximum now, sir. She's fighting it.
Then everyone's thrown forward
Spock said: We've broken free and heading back.
Sulu said: Gaining speed now, Captain. We're now at warp four, warp seven. Eight. Off the dial, sir.
Spock said: Chronometers moving forward again, Captain.
Kirk said: Do you have the chronometer reading and the co-ordinates to return Captain Christopher and the guard?
Spock said: Computed.
Kirk said: Bridge to transporter room. Captain Christopher.
{Transporter room]
Christopher said: This is Christopher.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: We're coming up on Earth fast, Captain. Are you ready?
Christopher said: Everything A-OK.
Scene: Transporter room.
Christopher said: Captain, thanks for the look ahead.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Our pleasure, Captain. Bridge out.
The blue planet grows larger on the viewscreen
Spock said: Twenty minutes, sir. It'll be close.
Kirk said: Bridge to transporter room. Prepare to energise.
Spock said: Ten minutes. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one.
Kirk said: Energise.
Scene: Jet Fighter.
Flight said: You should be close enough for a visual contact.
Captain Christopher is beamed into himself. He has a look around, but Enterprise has vanished.
Flight said: Bluejay Four. Can you see it? What is it? Bluejay 4. Come in. We've lost the image.
Christopher said: Blackjack, this is Bluejay Four. I could have sworn there was some kind of ship, but nothing could have moved that fast.
Flight said: We don't track mirages.
Scene: Bridge.
Christopher said: Mark it down as another UFO. Bluejay Four returning to base. Out.
Spock said: Approaching second beaming, Captain.
Kirk said: Bridge to transporter room, prepare to energise.
Spock said: Now.
Kirk said: Energise.
The sergeant is beamed into himself as he is about to look through the glass door of the Statistical Services Division. There's no one there, so he continues on his round.
Sulu said: Past Pluto, sir.
Kirk said: What's our reading, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Approaching our century, Captain. Braking should begin now.
Kirk said: Bridge to engineering. Begin full braking power.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: Pulling away from the sun weakened them, sir. They may blow apart if I reverse.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: No choice, Mister Scott.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: Aye, sir.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Fifty years to go.
Sulu said: Engines cutting back, sir. No decrease in speed.
Spock said: Forty, thirty.
Kirk said: Never mind, Mister Spock.
Once again, everyone gets thrown around
Sulu said: The engines!
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: Engine room to Bridge. Engines are on full reverse. They're buckling! Bridge!
Scene: Bridge.
Things return to normal
Kirk said: Mister Scott is still with us.
Uhura said: Captain.
Starfleet [Oc} said: Starfleet Control calling Enterprise. Come in, Enterprise.
Kirk said: Open a channel, Uhura.
Uhura said: Frequency open, sir.
Kirk said: Starfleet Control, this is the Enterprise. Captain Kirk speaking.
Computer said: Record ship arrival, dear.
Starfleet [Oc} said: Enterprise, this is Starfleet Control. Come in, please.
Kirk said: Starfleet Control, repeating message. The Enterprise is home. Kirk out.