The Alternative Factor
Stardate: 3087.6
Original Airdate: 30 Mar, 1967
Scene: Bridge.
Enterprise is orbiting a red and white planet.
Kirk said: Well, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Very typical, Captain. Iron-silicon base, oxygen-hydrogen atmosphere, largely arid, no discernible life. No surprises.
Kirk said: Photographic section, begin scanning. Tie in to visual section 988-TG, computer bank 22. Kirk out. About four more orbits ought to do it, Mister Lesley. That'll wrap it up. Lay in a course for Starbase 200.
Lesley said: Aye, aye, Captain.
Spock said: Captain.
Something suddenly rocks the ship. We see a shot of a nebula along with the crew.
Kirk said: Mister Spock!
Spock said: Incredible, Captain.
And again.
Kirk said: What was that?
Spock said: What my instruments read is totally unbelievable, Captain. Twice, for a split second each time, everything within range of our instruments seemed on the verge of winking out.
Kirk said: I want facts, not poetry.
Spock said: I have given you the facts, Captain. The entire magnetic field in this solar system simply blinked. The planet below, the mass of which we're measuring, attained zero gravity.
Kirk said: That's impossible. What you're describing
Spock said: Is non-existence.
Uhura said: Standard General Alert signal from Starfleet Command, Captain.
Kirk said: All stations to immediate alert status. Stand by.
Spock said: Captain, scanners now report a life object on the planet surface below.
Kirk said: You just did a complete life survey five minutes ago. How are you just picking it up now?
Spock said: Inexplicable, Captain. This reading began at approximately the moment that the pulsation phenomenon began to subside.
Kirk said: Well, what is it, this object? Its physical makeup?
Spock said: A living being. Body temperature 98.5 Fahrenheit. Mass, electrical impulses, movement. It is apparently human, Captain.
Kirk said: And its appearance coincided with this cosmic winking-out?
SPOCK; Almost to the second.
Kirk said: Explanation.
Spock said: None.
Kirk said: Speculation. Could this being present any danger to the ship?
Spock said: Possible. Very possible.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura, notify Security to have an armed detachment of men ready to beam down with us. Let's go. Any word comes through from Starfleet Command, pipe it down immediately. Communications, priority one.
Captain's log, stardate 3087.6. While investigating an uncharted planet, the Enterprise and at least this entire quadrant of space, has been subjected to violent, unexplained stress and force. Sensors have reported the presence of a human being on the planet below who might be connected with the phenomenon. With my first officer and a security team, I have set out in search of him.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk, Spock and four armed red-shirts arrive on a rocky terrain with a few scrubby bushes. They walk on a little way until they spot a strange craft on the ground. A one-man flying saucer with a perspex dome cockpit. As they reach it, a man calls out from a ridge.
Lazarus said: You came! Thank the heavens. There's still time. It's not too late. We can still stop him. But I, but I, need, need your help.
He falls.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Nothing yet, sir.
Masters said: (A woman in a blue uniform) Report on the dilithium crystals, Captain.
Kirk said: Yes.
Masters said: Whatever that phenomenon was, it drained almost all of our crystals completely. It could mean trouble.
Kirk said: You have a talent for understatement, Lieutenant. Without full crystal power, our orbit will begin to decay in ten hours. Re-amplify immediately.
Masters said: Aye aye, sir.;
Kirk said: Any further magnetic disturbance?
Spock said: Negative, Captain. Scanners indicate situation normal.
Kirk said: Nothing?
Spock said: Nothing. Illogical. An effect of such proportions, unexplainable by any established physical laws that I'm aware of. I have been able to ascertain one fact. Though the effect, whatever it was, was unquestioningly widespread, it was strongest here on the planet beneath us.
Kirk said: Keep checking.
Uhura said: Red Two message in one minute, Captain. Starfleet Command. Code Factor one, sir.
Kirk said: Repeat.
Uhura said: Code Factor one.
Kirk said: Invasion status. All hands, this is the Captain. Battle stations. I repeat, battle stations. This is no drill.
Mccoy said: McCoy, Captain.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Mccoy said: About our patient.
Kirk said: Yes, Doctor, quickly.
Mccoy said: He'll make it. He'll be stiff and sore for a while, but he'll be all right.
Kirk said: I'll talk to him later. Thank you. Kirk out.
Uhura said: Message ready, Captain. Main screen, coming up.
Kirk said: Kirk here. Enterprise standing by, Commodore.
Barstow said: You're aware of the effect an hour ago?
Kirk said: Yes, sir.
Barstow said: You may not be aware of its scope. It occurred in every quadrant of the galaxy and far beyond. Complete disruption of normal magnetic and gravimetric fields, timewarp distortion, possible radiation variations. And all of them centring on the general area which you are now patrolling. The question is, are these natural phenomena or are they mechanically created, and if they are, by whom? For what purpose? Your guess, Captain.
Kirk said: Thank you, sir. I have considered all the alternatives. My best guess is it could be a prelude to invasion.
Barstow said: Exactly our consensus. I'm giving you the job of finding out specifically.
KIRK; Aye, aye, sir. Can you assign me other starships as a reserve?
Barstow said: Negative. I'm evacuating all Starfleet units and personnel within a hundred parsecs of your position. It's going to be tough on you and the Enterprise, but that's the job you've drawn. You're on your own.
Kirk said: I see. You mean, we're the bait.
Barstow said: Good luck.
Kirk said: Thank you, sir. (transmission ends) Maintain alert status at all battle stations.
Uhura said: Aye aye, sir.
Kirk said: From the top, Mister Spock. First, the phenomenon came from the planet below. Secondly, the danger is apparently real and imminent.
Spock said: Third, a closer examination of the planet's surface would be in order. My job, sir?
Kirk said: Yes. Meanwhile, I'll talk to our unexpected guest. Maybe he can provide some answers.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Lazarus said: That's how I came to be down there, Captain, pursuing the devil's own spawn, a thing I've chased across the universe. He's humanoid outside, but inside, he's a hideous, murdering monster. I'll get him, Captain. I swear it.
Kirk said: You say this one man
Lazarus said: Not man! Thing.
Kirk said: Thing destroyed your entire civilisation.
Lazarus said: To the last man, woman and child.
Kirk said: How did you escape?
Lazarus said: I was inspecting magnetic communications satellites. You believe me, don't you?
Kirk said: Before we picked you up, our ship sustained a number of incredible effects.
Lazarus said: That was he! He's death, anti-life, he lives to destroy.
Kirk said: Is he the thing that attacked you?
Lazarus said: Yes. I give you my word. I swear it.
Kirk said: We don't have any other facts, any information.
Lazarus said: Then you'll join me in my holy cause? Help me in visiting justice and vengeance upon him.
Kirk said: My only cause is the safety of my ship and the mission we're on. You'll beam down with me and I'll check your story out.
Scene: Planet surface.
The flying saucer is being minutely examined
Kirk said: Spock, find anything?
Spock said: Negative, Captain. Anything from our guest?
Kirk said: According to him, there's a creature of some sort down here, a humanoid.
Spock said: Lieutenant Uhura communicated that information. I ordered re-confirmation on our sensors. They indicate no living creature on this planet. I suggest, Captain, that you've been lied to.
Lazarus said: Captain, you yourself said there were no other explanations. Why do you give credence to this man?
Spock said: I fail to comprehend your indignation, sir. I've simply made the logical deduction that you are a liar.
Kirk said: Let's have it. The truth this time.
Another one of those 'nebula overlay' events happens, and Lazarus starts shouting then runs off.
Lazarus said: No! You've come back in, is it? Well, don't stop. Here I am. Come at me again. We'll finish it!
Kirk said: Can you identify that?
Spock said: I'm trying, Captain.
Kirk said: Lazarus! You stay here. All personnel, security red.
Lazarus said: Come! Come! It'll do you no good. I'll chase you to the very fires of hell!
We're treated to a negative image of Lazarus suddenly being pounced on by another person. They fight as the picture keeps being rotated to make you dizzy. Then it all ends and Lazarus staggers back on the planet surface again.
Kirk said: Lazarus, what happened?
Lazarus said: I saw it again. The thing. It attacked me.
Kirk said: Let's get out of here.
Spock said: Captain, readings of the effect indicate it centred here on this planet, almost on this very spot.
Lazarus said: I told you it was a thing. All white, black and empty. A terrible emptiness.
Kirk said: Let's get back to the ship.
Lazarus said: He'll kill us all if we don't kill him first! Kill! Kill! Kill! Kill! Kill!
Captain's log, stardate 3088.3. We continue to orbit the dead planet, which seems to be the source of the phenomenon which has struck the Enterprise and all sections of the galaxy once again. As for Lazarus, the story he tells me about the humanoid continues to trouble me.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Any luck?
Spock said: Negative, Captain. I can no more explain the occurrence of the second phenomenon than I can the first.
Kirk said: If there's a shred of truth to what Lazarus said
Spock said: That a single creature, a humanoid could be responsible for an effect of such magnitude?
Kirk said: Hard to believe.
Spock said: Indeed.
Kirk said: But the rest of his story seems to fit. His wounds testify to an apparent confrontation with something.
Spock said: Affirmative.
Kirk said: Assuming there is a humanoid, a something, how does he do it? He has no weapons, no power.
Spock said: Captain, I only know for certain that the occurrence of the phenomenon coincides exactly with the moments that Lazarus has his alleged confrontations.
Uhura said: Doctor McCoy asking to see you in sickbay, Captain.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: I don't know, Jim. Maybe I'm imagining things, and maybe I'm not. You tell me.
Kirk said: You tell me. That's why you brought me down here, isn't it.
Mccoy said: Well, as you know, we both brought Lazarus in here and I treated a deep abrasion on his forehead, right?
Kirk said: Right.
Mccoy said: Then I bandaged it, I stepped into this room for just a moment
Kirk said: Bones, I've got a lot of things to do. Get to the point.
Mccoy said: Well, say he's got the constitution of a dinosaur, recuperative powers ditto. As we both know, I'm a bright young medic with a miraculous touch. Why then, when I returned, there wasn't a trace of that wound on his forehead. Not even a bruise. It was like he had never been injured.
Kirk said: Where is he?
Mccoy said: I don't know, Jim. This is a big ship. I'm just a country doctor.
Scene: Rec room.
Lazarus is sitting nearby when the following conversation takes place.
Engineer said: Hi.
Masters said: Hi. Coffee?
Engineer said: Is that an order, Lieutenant?
Masters said: I know what you mean. Re-amplification finished on the dilithium crystals?
Engineer said: Yes. Ready and waiting.
They leave, then Lazarus follows.
Scene: Corridor.
Lazarus has some sort of seizure and we get the nebula effect, the fight, and then... he has a plaster on his forehead again. Kirk and McCoy exit the turbolift and spot him.
Kirk said: Lazarus, are you all right?
Lazarus said: Yes. But impatient. Have you decided to help me yet?
McCoy removes the plaster to show the cut.
Lazarus said: Is something wrong?
Kirk said: No. I have a ship's physician with a strange sense of humour.
Mccoy said: This is no joke, Jim. I know what I saw.
Uhura said: Bridge calling the captain.
Kirk said: Go.
Spock said: Request you come to the Bridge, Captain.
Kirk said: Find something?
Spock said: Something quite extraordinary.
Kirk said: On my way. Lazarus, you're with me. Bones, if I had time, I'd laugh.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Main screen on, Lieutenant.
Uhura said: Screen on, sir.
Kirk and Lazarus enter.
Spock said: Source of radiation, Captain.
A bright flashing light on the planet.
Kirk said: How is it the scanners didn't pick it up before?
Spock said: Because it is not there.
Kirk said: Another riddle? First Doctor McCoy, then you?
Spock said: What I mean, Captain, is that according to our usual scanning procedures, there is nothing there that could be causing that effect.
Kirk said: But it is there.
Spock said: Affirmative. I confess I am somewhat at a loss for words. It may be described, though loosely and inaccurately, as a rip in our universe.
Kirk said: A what?
Spock said: A kind of physical warp, Captain, in which none of our established physical laws apply with any regularity. However, with the dilithium crystals, I was able to localise it.
Lazarus said: Yes! That's it! The dilithium crystals. With their power we could do it.
Spock said: You refer to the humanoid?
Lazarus said: Yes. We've got him, Captain, we've got him.
Kirk said: What do the crystals have to do with it? All they show us the point of radiation.
Lazarus said: That's just it, that's the key. That's the way to trap him. That's the solution. Captain, I beg of you. I plead, I demand. Give me the crystals.
Kirk said: Out of the question. Those crystals are the very heart of the power of my ship.
Lazarus said: You fool! There won't be any ship if we don't kill him. He'll destroy all of you.
Kirk said: How? Now you tell me how. All I've heard is double-talk, lies, threats, accusations that don't hold water. Now you tell me, how it presents a danger to my ship?
Lazarus said: I warn you, Captain. You'll give me the crystals.
Kirk said: Don't threaten me, Lazarus.
Lazarus said: No threat intended. Captain, I'll have my vengeance.
He leaves the Bridge by the turbolift, and the guard follows a moment later. Lazarus is walking along a corridor when he has another seizure and loses the head injury. Lazarus heads for...
Scene: Engineering.
Engineer said: Lieutenant Masters, Captain's calling.
Masters said: Masters here.
Kirk said: Lieutenant, can you prepare an experimentation chamber in ten minutes? All dilithium crystals, full power.
We see Lazarus jump the engineer, out of her sight.
Masters said: I'll check, sir.
She goes into the room where Lazarus is hiding, checks a panel and leaves again.
Masters said: Captain. The chamber will be ready in ten minutes, sir. My assistant and I will
Lazarus injects her neck with something.
Masters said: Captain! Captain!
Kirk said: Lieutenant, what is it? What's wrong? Lieutenant?
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Captain, Security reports Lazarus missing.
Captain's log, stardate 3088.7. We are no closer to finding an answer to the strange phenomenon than we were at the beginning. Not only have two of my crewmen been attacked, two of our dilithium crystals are missing, and without them the Enterprise cannot operate at full power. They must be found.
Scene: Briefing room.
This Lazarus has his head injury back again.
Kirk said: Fact. You said you needed the crystals. Fact. An hour after you said you must have them, they were missing. Fact. Two of my crewmen were attacked.
Lazarus said: And fact, Captain. I didn't take the crystals. I'm not the one. Find my enemy, find the beast, and you'll find the crystals.
Kirk said: How'd this beast get aboard my ship?
Lazarus said: He did. Isn't that enough?
Kirk said: No. He didn't transport up. A report would've been made.
Lazarus said: I tell you we're dealing with a creature capable of destroying worlds.
Spock said: Why does he need the crystals? For what reason?
Lazarus said: For the same reason that I do. Listen to me. He's humanoid. Why, he he can pilot a spaceship. He can compute formulas to destroy races. He can steal an energy source for his vehicle so he can escape from me. Are you deaf as well as blind?
Kirk said: Sit down. The crystals certainly aren't here. There's an unexplained radiation source on the planet. Obviously some connection. We'll check it out. Organise a search party immediately. Mister Lazarus will beam down with us.
Lazarus said: Thank you, Captain.
Kirk said: You may not have reason to thank me, depending on what we find.
Scene: Planet surface.
Lazarus said: What do you believe now, Captain?
Kirk said: I believe the missing crystals aren't in your ship. Mister Spock?
Spock said: Unable to locate the source of radiation.
Kirk said: Why not? You had it spotted on the Enterprise.
Spock said: It has simply disappeared, Captain.
Kirk said: I want every inch of this terrain checked. Look for footprints, movement, anything. Call out if you spot anything. Don't be afraid to use your weapons.
The entire party leave the little spaceship. The Starfleet group splits into two and take different lines along a rocky outcrop. Lazarus heads off on his own and has one of his nebula moments. There's a fight in negative space and then it's over again. Kirk sends his two security men on ahead, and for some reason Lazarus decides to climb down a cliff face. He dislodges a rock and it goes tumbling. Lazarus calls out, then follows it.
Lazarus said: Captain, look out!
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: He's coming out of it now.
Lazarus said: The thing, the thing.
Mccoy said: It's all right. You're on board the Enterprise.
Lazarus said: The rock, I
Mccoy said: How's your head?
Lazarus said: Aches.
Kirk said: You saved my life down there. I want to thank you.
Lazarus said: Why shouldn't I?
Kirk said: I have some questions I want to ask you.
Mccoy said: Not now, Jim.
Kirk said: It's necessary.
Lazarus said: Go ahead. It's all right.
Kirk said: This is a computer report of the evidence you gave at your first screening. It calls you a liar, Lazarus. For one thing, there's no planet at the location you said you came from. There never has been. If you want help from us, you'd better start telling the truth.
Lazarus said: You wouldn't believe me if I told you.
Kirk said: Try us.
Lazarus said: All right. I distorted a fact in the interest of self-preservation, for my holy cause. I needed help, not censure. Freedom, not captivity for being a madman. I was afraid that's what you'd call me if I told you the truth.
Kirk said: I'll have the truth now.
Lazarus said: My planet, my Earth, or what's left of it, is down there beneath us.
Kirk said: What are you saying?
Lazarus said: My spaceship is more than just that. It's a time chamber, a time-ship, and I. I am a time traveller.
Kirk said: And this thing you search for is a time traveler, too?
Lazarus said: Oh, yes. He's fled me across all the years, all the empty years to a dead future on a murdered planet he destroyed. Help me! Give me the tools I need to kill him! The crystals! Don't let him get away! Don't let him get away.
Kirk said: Lazarus, you're hurt. I know. I sympathise, but I've got four hundred and thirty other men to worry about. Now where are those crystals?
Lazarus said: I told you, he's got them. He took them. The thing! The thing!
Mccoy said: He's got to get some rest, Jim. And would you get that muscleman out of my Sickbay. (gestures at the security guard)
Kirk said: Dismissed.
The guard leaves.
Mccoy said: He's in a lot of pain.
Kirk said: Sometimes pain can drive a man harder than pleasure. I'm sure you know that, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Well, don't worry, he's not going anywhere. Not this time.
But once the medical bay is empty, Lazarus gets out of bed and has a quick seizure.
Scene: Briefing room.
Kirk said: What have we got, Mister Spock? A magnetic effect which produces a winking-out phenomenon. A mysterious, unidentified source of radiation on the planet. Lazarus, a walking powder keg. Your rip in the universe. A so-called murdering humanoid.
Spock said: True, Captain, but more significant to me is the fact that our ship's instruments are specifically designed to locate and identify any object in our universe, be it energy or matter.
Kirk said: But by using those instruments you were unable to identify the source of the radiation on the planet.
Spock said: Correct. Which would seem to be impossible.
Kirk said: Are the instruments in order?
Spock said: Perfect working condition.
Kirk said: Then what you say leads obviously to one alternative. The source of radiation is not from our universe.
Spock said: Nor in our universe, Captain. It came from outside.
Kirk said: Outside? Yes, that would explain a lot. Another universe, perhaps in another dimension, occupying the same space at the same time.
Spock said: The possible existence of a parallel universe has been scientifically conceded, Captain.
Kirk said: All right. What would happen if another universe, say a minus universe, came into contact with a positive universe such as ours?
Spock said: Unquestionably a warp. A distortion of physical laws on an immense scale.
Kirk said: Which is what we've been experiencing. The point where they come into contact, couldn't that be described as a hole?
Spock said: Indeed. I point out that a hole in the universe or in a simple container can either allow the contents to escape
Kirk said: Or what is outside to enter. The invasion that Commodore Barstow suspected.
Spock said: There has been no evidence of a large-scale invasion.
Kirk said: But a small scale invasion, Mister Spock. What is your analysis of the mental state of Lazarus?
Spock said: Difficult, Captain. One moment, paranoid, the next, calm, mild, rational. Almost as if he were two men.
Kirk said: Yes, two men. Different, but identical. And a hole in the universe. No, not a hole, A door.
Spock said: Through which these two beings are somehow enabled to pass.
Kirk said: Take a look at Lazarus. One minute he's at the point of death, the next he's alive, well, strong as a bull.
Spock said: The cut on his forehead. First he has it, then it's gone, then he has it again.
Kirk said: Which is physically impossible for one man.
Spock said: Quite right. Unquestionably, there are two of him.
Kirk said: What's going on? This leaping from universe to universe. This wild talk about a murdering creature who destroys civilisations What's the purpose?
Spock said: Jim, madness has no purpose or reason, but it may have a goal. He must be stopped, held. Destroyed if necessary.
Kirk said: I don't follow you.
Spock said: Two parallel universes project this. One positive, the other negative. Or, more specifically, one matter, the other antimatter.
Kirk said: Do you know what you're saying? Matter and antimatter have a tendency to cancel each other out. violently.
Spock said: Precisely. Under certain conditions, when two identical particles of matter and antimatter meet
Kirk said: Like Lazarus. Identical. Like both Lazarus', only one is matter and the other antimatter. If they meet.
Spock said: Annihilation, Jim. Total, complete, absolute annihilation.
Kirk said: Of everything that exists, everywhere.
Scene: Corridor.
Lazarus is prowling when he spots a High Voltage access panel. He opens it, removes a couple of transistors then puts one back to short it out. He leaves the area as smoke billows forth.
Scene: Engineering.
Smoke starts to come from the main control panels.
Masters said: The energiser has shorted. Get out of here. Sound the alarm.
Engineer said: Come on. You, too, Lieutenant.
Masters said: No, I've got to stay
Engineer said: We've got to get out of here. The whole thing might blow!
He bustles her out into the corridor.
Scene: Corridor.
Masters said: Engineering calling Bridge. Fire! Fire in the energising circuit.
Hidden by the smoke, Lazarus enters Engineering.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Fire, Captain. Engineering. Situation critical.
Kirk said: All available personnel, on the double. Spock, with me.
Scene: Corridor.
Two firefighters in protective gear are entering Engineering
Kirk said: Report.
Engineer said: Under control, sir, but it couldn't have started by itself.
Spock said: Lazarus. A trick to get the crystals.
Scene: Transporter room.
Chief said: Sir, you shouldn't be in here.
Lazarus said: Oh, I didn't know.
He knocks the poor lad out, then sets co-ordinates and is beamed to the planet carrying a bundle.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk and Spock exit Engineering.
Kirk said: He's probably beaming down with the crystals right now. I'm going after him. You organise a security detail. Follow me as soon as you can.
Spock said: Spock to Bridge.
Scene: Planet surface.
Lazarus climbs into his saucer and unwraps the crystals.
Lazarus said: I'll get you now. I have a threshold. Run, run. I'll get you now.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: Energise.
Scene: Planet surface.
Lazarus said: It's done, it's done! Finished, finished. It's done. It's done. It's done, it's done.
Kirk said: Lazarus.
Lazarus said: Done. No! Don't! Not you!
Kirk leans into the saucer - and vanishes.
Lazarus said: No!
Kirk goes into that negative space and finds that there is nowhere to run to. Then suddenly he's on the ground on the planet again. Or is he? He walks over to the saucer and is greeted by uninjured Lazarus.
Lazarus said: Welcome, Captain. I wasn't expecting you.
Kirk said: No, him.
Lazarus said: Yes, him. You understand.
Kirk said: Not completely. This is a parallel universe?
Lazarus said: Of course.
Kirk said: Antimatter?
Lazarus said: Here, yes.
Kirk said: And if identical particles meet
Lazarus said: The end of everything. Civilisation, existence, all gone. I tried to stop him, Captain. That's why I took your dilithium crystals.
Kirk said: He has two more.
Lazarus said: That's very bad, Captain. If he comes through at a time of his own choosing. But I think if we hurry and you will help me, he can yet still be stopped. There's little time left. He meant to come through. When you accidentally passed through, it drained his crystals. It'll take him about ten minutes to re-energise with the equipment aboard his ship. That should give us enough time.
Kirk said: Exactly what did I pass through?
Lazarus said: That's hard to explain, Captain. I call it an alternative warp. It's sort of a negative magnetic corridor where the two parallel universes meet. It's sort of a safety valve. It keeps eternity from blowing up.
Kirk said: This corridor, is it what caused the magnetic effect, the winking out phenomenon?
Lazarus said: Precisely, Captain, but not because of its existence. Because, because my foe entered. The corridor is like a prison, with explosives at the door. Open the door, and the explosives might go off. Stay inside
Kirk said: And the universe is safe.
Lazarus said: Both universes, Captain. Yours and mine.
Kirk said: Surely Lazarus must realise what would happen if you should meet face to face outside the corridor.
Lazarus said: Of course he knows, Captain, but he's mad. You heard him. He's lost his mind. When our people found a way to slip through the warp and prove another universe, an identical one, existed, it was too much for him. He could not live knowing that I lived. He became obsessed with the idea of destroying me. The fact that it meant his own destruction, and everything else, meant nothing to him.
Kirk said: So you're the terrible thing, the murdering monster. The creature.
Lazarus said: Yes, Captain. Or he is. It depends on your point of view, doesn't it? It's ready, Captain. If we can force him into the corridor while I'm waiting for him, we can put an end to this. But if he comes through at a time of his own choosing and breaks into this universe to find me
Kirk said: I understand. What do you want me to do?
Lazarus said: Find him. Force him through his threshold, while I'm waiting for him, into the corridor, and I'll hold him there.
Kirk said: You can't hold him forever.
Lazarus said: Can't I, Captain? You destroy his ship.
Kirk said: If I destroy his ship, won't yours also be destroyed?
Lazarus said: It will.
Kirk said: And your door will be closed.
Lazarus said: Yes, and so will his.
Kirk said: You'll be trapped inside that corridor with him forever. At each other's throats throughout time.
Lazarus said: Is it such a large price to pay for the safety of two universes?
Kirk said: I'm ready.
Lazarus said: Send him to me. I'll be waiting.
Lazarus activates his crystals manually, and Kirk vanishes, then reappears on 'our' planet and gestures to Spock who has come down with two guards.
Spock said: Lazarus.
Kirk jumps him while he is distracted and knocks him down.
Kirk said: Stand back.
But Lazarus has him in a bear hug, and they struggle together for a while until Kirk finally gets the upper-hand again.
Lazarus said: No! No! No, I'm not ready! I'm not ready!
Kirk throws him through the threshold.
Spock said: Take these crystals to the Enterprise.
Kirk said: I must destroy that ship completely.
Spock said: What of Lazarus?
Kirk said: And what of Lazarus?
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Activate phaser banks.
Lesley said: Phaser banks activated.
Kirk said: Stand by to fire.
The bright dot appears on the planet surface.
Lesley said: Phasers standing by, sir.
Kirk said: Fire phasers.
A sustained burst hits the little saucer, while the two Lazarus' wrestle in non-space. Finally it disappears.
Kirk said: All right, Mister Lesley, let's get out of here. Ahead warp factor one.
Lesley said: Warp one, sir.
Kirk said: Everything's all right, Mister Spock, for us.
Spock said: There is, of course, no escape for them, sir.
Kirk said: There is, of course, no escape. How would it be? Trapped forever with a raging madman at your throat until time itself came to a stop? For eternity. How would it be?
Spock said: Captain, the universe is safe.
Kirk said: For you and me. But what of Lazarus? What of Lazarus?