Errand of Mercy
Stardate: 3198.4
Original Airdate: 23 Mar, 1967
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Captain, we've reached the designated position for scanning the coded directive tape.
Kirk said: Good. (puts it into a decoder) We both guessed right. Negotiations with the Klingon Empire are on the verge of breaking down. Starfleet Command anticipates a surprise attack. We are to proceed to Organia and take whatever steps are necessary to prevent the Klingons from using it as a base.
Spock said: Strategically sound. Organia is the only Class M planet in the disputed area, ideally located for use by either side.
Kirk said: Organia's description, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Inhabited by humanoids. A very peaceful, friendly people living on a primitive level. Little of intrinsic value. Approximately Class D minus on Richter's scale of cultures.
Kirk said: Another Armenia, Belgium.
Spock said: Sir?
Kirk said: The weak innocents who always seem to be located on the natural invasion routes.
Sulu said: Captain, the automatic deflector screen just popped on. Body approaching.
Kirk said: Configuration, Mister Sulu.
Everyone is thrown about as the Enterprise is hit by multiple weapons fire.
Kirk said: Phaser banks, lock on. Return fire. Maintain firing rate. One hundred percent dispersal pattern.
Spock said: We've hit him, Captain. He's hurt.
Kirk said: Damage control, report to the first officer.
Sulu said: Captain, the other ship doesn't register. Only drifting debris. We got him.
Kirk said: All hands, maintain general alert. Hold battle stations. Damage report, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Minor, Captain. We were most fortunate. Blast damage in decks ten and eleven, minor buckling in the antimatter pods, casualties very light.
Kirk said: Maintain surveillance, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: No contact, Captain. He blew up all right.
Kirk said: Well, we've been anticipating an attack. I'd say what we've just experienced very nearly qualifies.
Spock said: Yes. It would seem to be an unfriendly act.
Uhura said: Automatic all-points relay from Starfleet Command, Captain, code one.
Kirk said: Well, there it is. War. We didn't want it, but we've got it.
Spock said: Curious how often you humans manage to obtain that which you do not want.
Kirk said: War or not, we've still got a job to do. Denying Organia to the Klingons.
Spock said: With the outbreak of hostilities, that might not be easy.
Kirk said: Lay in a course for Organia, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Aye, aye, sir.
Spock said: Negotiating with the Organians will be time-consuming, Captain, and time is one thing we'll have the least of.
Kirk said: We won't get it by talking about it. The trigger's been pulled. We have to get there before the hammer falls. Ahead warp factor seven.
Captain's log, stardate 3198.4. We have reached Organia and established standard orbit. No signs of hostile activities in this area.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Captain. Unit XY-75847 report a fleet of Klingon ships in their sector, sir.
Kirk said: What bearing?
Uhura said: Unable to ascertain, sir.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu, have the phaser crews stand by their positions. Full power deflector screens.
Sulu said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Mister Spock and I are going to the planet's surface. You will be in command. Your responsibility is to the Enterprise, not to us. Is that clear?
Sulu said: Perfectly, sir.
Kirk said: The Klingon fleet is in this quadrant. We know that Organia will be a target. If they should emerge
Sulu said: We'll handle them, sir.
Kirk said: You will evaluate the situation. If there is a fleet of them, you'll get out of here, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: But, Captain
Kirk said: No buts. You'll get to safety and alert the fleet. You will not attack alone. Mister Spock and I will be all right. Mister Spock, let's you and I pay the Organians a visit.
Scene: Planet surface.
They beam down in front of a vaguely castle-styled wall which is completely smooth. The locals are dressed in romanticised rural mediaeval-style clothing, and take no notice of them at all.
Kirk said: You'd think they had people beaming down every day.
Spock said: Yes. Curious lack of interest. Notice the ruins in the distance, Captain. Quite large.
Kirk said: Yes. A fortress, perhaps. A castle.
Spock said: Whatever it is, it would seem to be inconsistent with the reports we've been given on this culture.
A man in a loose purple robe opens his arms wide.
Ayelborne said: Welcome.
Kirk said: Reception committee?
Spock said: It would seem so.
Ayelborne said: You are our visitors. Welcome, welcome. I am Ayelborne.
Kirk said: I am Captain James T. Kirk of the starship Enterprise, representing the United Federation of Planets. This is my first officer Mister Spock.
Ayelborne said: You are most welcome, my friend.
Kirk said: I would like to speak to someone in authority.
Ayelborne said: We don't have anybody in authority, but I am the chairman of the Council of Elders. Perhaps I would do.
Kirk said: You people are in great danger. Is there someplace we can go and talk?
Ayelborne said: Oh, yes. Our council chambers are nearby. Please.
Spock said: Captain, if you don't mind, I should like to wander about the village and make some studies.
Ayelborne said: Of course, my friend. Our village is yours. Captain.
Scene: Council Chamber.
Ayelborne and four other older men seat themselves at a simple wooden table. Beautifully polished, though.
Kirk said: Gentlemen, my government has informed me that the Klingons are expected to move against your planet with the objective of making it a base of operation against the Federation. My mission, frankly, is to keep them from doing it.
Ayelborne said: What you're saying, Captain, is that we seem to have a choice between dealing with you or your enemies.
Kirk said: No, sir. With the Federation, you have a choice. You have none with the Klingons. The Klingons are a military dictatorship. War is their way of life. Life under the Klingon rule would be very unpleasant. We offer you protection.
Claymare said: We thank you for your altruistic offer, Captain, but we really do not need your protection.
Ayelborne said: We are a simple people, Captain. We have nothing that anybody could want.
Kirk said: You have this planet and its strategic location. I assure you that if you don't take action to prevent it, the Klingons will move against you as surely as your sun rises. We will help you build defences, build facilities.
Ayelborne said: We have no defences, Captain, nor are any needed.
Kirk said: Gentlemen, I have seen what the Klingons do to planets like yours. They are organised into vast slave labour camps. No freedoms whatsoever. Your goods will be confiscated. Hostages taken and killed, your leaders confined. You'd be far better off on a penal planet. Infinitely better off.
Ayelborne said: Captain, we see that your concern is genuine. We are moved. But again we assure you we are in absolutely no danger. If anybody is in danger, you are, and that concerns us greatly. It would be better if you returned to your ship as soon as possible.
Kirk said: You keep insisting there's no danger. I keep assuring you there is. Would you mind telling me
Ayelborne said: It is our way of life, Captain.
Kirk said: That's the first thing that would be lost! Excuse me, gentlemen. I'm a soldier, not a diplomat. I can only tell you the truth.
Ayelborne said: If you will excuse us, Captain, we will discuss your kind offer.
Kirk said: Certainly.
The doors open on their own and Spock enters. He and Kirk whisper in a corner.
Spock said: Captain, our information on these people and their culture was not correct. This is not a primitive society making progress toward mechanisation. They are totally stagnant. There is no evidence of any progress as far back as my tricorder can register.
Kirk said: That doesn't seem likely.
Spock said: Nevertheless, it is true. For tens of thousands of years, there has been absolutely no advancement, no significant change in their physical environment. This is a laboratory specimen of an arrested culture.
Kirk said: Thank you, Mister Spock. That might be useful.
Ayelborne said: We have discussed your offer, Captain. Our opinion is unchanged. We are in no danger. We thank you for your kind offer of assistance, although we must decline it, and we strongly recommend that you leave Organia before you yourselves are endangered.
Kirk said: Gentlemen, I must get you to reconsider. We can be of immense help to you. In addition to military aid, we can send you specialists, technicians. We can show you how to feed a thousand people where one was fed before. We can help you build schools, educate the young in the latest technological and scientific skills. Your public facilities are almost non-existent. We can help you remake your world, end disease, hunger, hardship. All we ask in return is that you let us help you. Now.
Ayelborne said: Captain, I can see that you do not understand us. Perhaps
Kirk said: (answering communicator) Excuse me, sir. Kirk here.
Sulu said: Captain, a large number of Klingon vessels have just arrived.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: They're opening fire.
Kirk said: Positive identification?
Sulu said: Yes, sir. My screens are up. I can't drop them to beam you aboard.
Scene: Council Chamber.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu, follow your orders. Get out of here. Contact the fleet. Return if the odds are more equal. Kirk out. Gentlemen, you kept insisting that there was no danger
Ayelborne said: That is correct, Captain. There is no danger.
Trefayne said: Ayelborne, eight space vehicles have assumed orbit around our planet. They are activating their material transmission units.
Ayelborne said: Thank you, Trefayne.
Kirk said: Can you verify that?
Spock said: Negative, Captain, but it seems a logical development.
Ayelborne said: Captain, since it is too late for you to escape, perhaps we should do something about protecting you.
Kirk said: If you had listened to me
Claymare said: We must be sure you are not harmed.
Trefayne said: Ayelborne, several hundred men have appeared near the citadel. They bring many weapons.
Kirk said: How does he know that?
Ayelborne said: Oh, our friend Trefayne is really quite intuitive. You can rest assured that what he says is absolutely correct.
Kirk said: So we're stranded here, in the middle of a Klingon occupation army.
Spock said: So it would seem. Not a very pleasant prospect.
Kirk said: You have a gift for understatement, Mister Spock. It's not a very pleasant prospect at all.
Captain's Log. stardate 3201.7. Mister Spock and I are trapped on the planet Organia, which is in the process of being occupied by the forces of the Klingon Empire. The Organians have provided us with native clothing in the hopes we may be taken for Organians.
Scene: Council Chamber.
Spock said: Captain, our phasers are gone.
Kirk said: Did you take them?
Ayelborne said: Yes, Captain. I took them.
Kirk said: I must ask you to return them.
Ayelborne said: I'm sorry, Captain. I cannot do that. Were you armed, you might be tempted to use violence, and that we cannot permit. You, Captain, will pass as an Organian, and Mister Spock. Mister Spock presents a problem. He doesn't look like an Organian.
Claymare said: A Vulcan trader, perhaps. A dealer in kevas and trillium. Harmless to the Klingons.
Kirk said: They know that Vulcan is a member of the Federation.
Spock said: Vulcan merchants are not uncommon, Captain. It is a practical approach.
Kirk said: What about the rest of you?
Ayelborne said: We shall continue as before. We have nothing to fear.
Kirk said: You have a lot to learn, sir. And if I know the Klingons, you'll be learning it the hard way.
The doors open on their own, and two Klingons march in, followed by their leader.;
Kor said: This is the ruling council?
Ayelborne said: I am Ayelborne, temporary head of the council. I bid you welcome.
Kor said: No doubt you do. I am Kor, military governor of Organia. (looking at Kirk) Who are you?
Ayelborne said: He is Baroner, one of our leading citizens.
Kor said: And he has no tongue?
Kirk said: I have a tongue.
Kor said: Good. You will be taught how to use it. Where is your smile?
Kirk said: My what?
Kor said: The stupid, idiotic smile everyone else seems to be wearing. A Vulcan. Do you also have a tongue?
Spock said: I am Spock, a dealer in kevas and trillium.
Kos said: You do not look like a storekeeper. Take this man. Vulcans are members of the Federation. He may be a spy.
Kirk said: He's no spy.
Kor said: Well, have we a ram among the sheep? Do you object to us taking him?
Kirk said: He's done nothing. Nothing at all.
Kor said: Coming from an Organian, yours is practically an act of rebellion. Very good. (to the Council) So you welcome me. (to Kirk) Do you also welcome me?
Kirk said: You're here. There's nothing I can do about it.
Kor said: Good honest hatred. Very refreshing. However, it makes no difference whether you welcome me or not. I am here and will stay. You are now subjects of the Klingon Empire. You'll find there are many rules and regulations. They will be posted. Violation of the smallest of them will be punished by death.
Ayelborne said: We shall obey your regulations, Commander.
Kor said: You disapprove, Baroner.
Kirk said: You need my approval?
Kor said: I need your obedience. Nothing more. Will I have it?
Kirk said: You seem to be in command.
Kor said: Yes. I am. I shall need a representative from among you. Liaison between the forces of the occupation and the civil population. Smile and smile. I don't trust men who smile too much. You, Baroner, you're the man.
Kirk said: Me? I don't want the job.
Kor said: Have I asked whether or not you want it? We Klingons have a reputation for ruthlessness. You will find that it is deserved. Should one Klingon soldier be killed, a thousand Organians will die. I will have order. Is that clear?
Ayelborne said: Commander, I assure you our people want nothing but peace. We shall cause you no trouble.
Kor said: I'm sure you will not. Take the Vulcan to the examination room. (to Kirk) You, come with me. I will familiarise you with your new duties.
Kirk said: And Mister Spock?
Kor said: You are concerned?
Kirk said: He is my friend.
Kor said: You have a poor choice of friends. He will be examined. If he is lying, he will die. If he is telling the truth, he will find that business has taken a turn for the worse. Take him. You do not like to be pushed. Very good. You may be a man I can deal with, Baroner. Come with me.
Scene: Kor's office.
Probably up in the old castle.
Kor said: From this day on, no public assemblages of more than three people. All publications to be cleared through this office. Neighbourhood controls will be established, hostages selected. A somewhat lengthy list of crimes against the state.
Kor hands the proclamation to Kirk, who puts it down on the desk.
Kor said: You do not like them? (Spock is brought in.) Well?
Klingon said: He is what he claims to be, Commander, a Vulcanian merchant named Spock. His main concern seems to be how he would carry out his business under our occupation.
Kor said: Nothing else?
Klingon said: The usual. A certain amount of apprehension regarding us. The mind is remarkably disciplined.
Kor said: You are sure?
Klingon said: I used force four, which is sufficient to break down any pretence.
Kor said: Very well, Lieutenant. Would you like to try our little truth finder?
Kirk said: I don't understand.
Kor said: It's a mind-sifter or mind-ripper, depending on how much force is used. We can record every thought, every bit of knowledge in a man's mind. Of course, when that much force is used, the mind is emptied. Permanently, I'm afraid. What's left is more vegetable than human.
Kirk said: And you're proud of it.
Kor said: It is a tool, a weapon. Somewhat drastic, but very efficient.
Kirk said: Are you sure you're all right?
Spock said: Perfectly, Baroner. But it was an interesting experience.
Kor said: All right, Vulcan, you may go. But you are an enemy alien. You will be under our scrutiny at all times. If I have to warn you
Spock said: Not necessary, Commander. I understand you very well.
He leaves, followed by the guard.
Kor said: Return to your council, Baroner. You will receive our official notifications as soon as they are published. In the meantime keep the people in order. It is your responsibility.
Kirk said: Or I will be killed.
Kor said: That is exactly right. You will be killed.
Scene: Village square.
Kirk said: That mindsifter can't be all the terror they think it is.
Spock said: It should not be underestimated, Captain. It reaches directly into the mind. We Vulcans have certain mental (a Klingon walks past) certain disciplines which enable me to maintain a shield. Without those disciplines, there would be no protection.
Kirk said: I'll try and avoid it.
Klingon 2 said: Out of the way, Organian.
Spock said: I'm sorry, sir. We did not notice you.
Klingon 2 said: Next time, keep your eyes open, or I'll shut them permanently.
Spock said: Captain, I strongly suggest we direct our energies toward the immediate problem. Accomplishing our mission here.
Kirk said: You didn't really think I was going to beat his head in, did you?
Spock said: I thought you might.
Kirk said: You're right. But as you say, we still have a job to do.
Spock said: We'll receive no help from the Organians.
Kirk said: Maybe, but sooner or later they'll start resenting how the Klingons run things. If we could prove to them they could do something to strike back, to keep the Klingons off balance.
Spock said: Verbal persuasion seems to be ineffective. Perhaps a more direct approach?
Kirk said: That's exactly what I had in mind. Mister Spock Did I or did I not see something that looked like a munitions dump outside of Kor's headquarters?
Spock said: You did.
Kirk said: I think it's time we did a little simple and plain communicating. Tonight.
Spock said: A very meritorious idea, Captain.
Kirk said: We're short of tools.
Spock said: I'm certain the Klingons will provide whatever is necessary. It's a pleasure doing business with you, Mister Spock.
Scene: Kor's Headquarters.
Kirk jumps one Klingon and hauls his unconscious body away. Spock primes a grenade, presumably from the munitions dump.
Kirk said: Okay so far. Sonic grenade?
Spock said: With a delayed action fuse.
KIRK; Good.
Spock said: These crates contain chemical explosives. They should make a most satisfactory display.
He casually drops the grenade into a box, and they run.
Spock said: Six, five, four three.
There's a short but bright fireworks show.
Kirk said: You were right, Mister Spock. A most satisfactory display.
Scene: Council Chamber.
Kirk said: Of course we blew it up. Deliberately.
Ayelborne said: But that was violence.
Kirk said: We did it to show you that you can fight back. You don't have to be sheep, you can be wolves.
Claymare said: Terrible to destroy.
Kirk said: History is full of examples of civil populations fighting back successfully against a military dictatorship. We may not be able to destroy the Klingons, but we can tie them up. Blow up their installations, disrupt their communications, make Organia useless to them.
Spock said: Our fleet will eventually arrive. In the meantime, the battle is ours. It can be a successful one.
Ayelborne said: Captain, I implore you never to do such a thing again.
Kirk said: Why? Are you afraid of retribution? Does your personal freedom mean so little to you?
Ayelborne said: How little you understand us, Captain.
Kirk said: All I understand is that you apparently don't have the backbone to fight and protect your loved ones.
Scene: Kor's office.
Of course he had the Council Chamber bugged.;
Kirk said: I speak of courage, gentlemen. Does courage mean so little to you?
Scene: Council Chamber.
Kor and his troops enter.
Kor said: You speak of courage. Obviously you do not know the difference between courage and foolhardiness. Always it is the brave ones who die. The soldiers. I hope you will continue to savour the sweetness of your life. You disgust me.
Ayelborne said: What are you going to do with him, Commander?
Kor said: What is always done with spies and saboteurs. He will be killed, after he has had first-hand experience of our mind scanner.
Ayelborne said: There's no need to use your machine on him, commander. I can tell you his name. It is Captain James T. Kirk.
Kirk said: Ayelborne!
Kor said: What? (A big grin spreads across his face) Captain of the USS Enterprise. A starship commander. And his first officer? I had hoped to meet you in battle, but
Ayelborne said: For some reason, he feels that he must destroy you, Commander, just as you feel you must destroy him.
Kor said: That's going to be rather difficult now. Isn't it, Captain? What an admirable people. Do you always betray your friends?
Ayelborne said: I didn't want you to harm him. I'm sorry, Captain. It was for the best. No harm would come of it.
Kirk said: I'm used to the idea of dying, but I have no desire to die for the likes of you.
Kor said: I don't blame you, Captain. Lock up the Vulcan. Take the Captain to my office. We'll have a talk before I do what must be done.
Scene: Kor's office.
Kor said: You'll have a drink with me, Captain?
Kirk said: No, thank you.
Kor said: I assure you it isn't drugged. With our mind-scanner, we have no need for such crude methods.
Kirk said: What do you want from me?
Kor said: Oh, a very great deal, but first I want to talk. Just talk.
Kirk said: You think I'm going to sit here and just talk with the enemy?
Kor said: You'll talk. Either here, now, voluntarily, or under our mind-scanner. The fact is, Captain, I have a great admiration for your Starfleet. A remarkable instrument. and I must confess to a certain admiration for you. I know, of course, that it was you who destroyed our supplies last night.
Kirk said: Something was destroyed? Nothing inconsequential, I hope.
Kor said: Hardly. They were quite important to us, but they can be replaced. You of the Federation, you are much like us.
Kirk said: We're nothing like you. We're a democratic body.
Kor said: Come now. I'm not referring to minor ideological differences. I mean that we are similar as a species. Here we are on a planet of sheep. Two tigers, predators, hunters, killers, and it is precisely that which makes us great. And there is a universe to be taken.
Kirk said: It's a very large universe, Commander, full of people who don't like the Klingons.
Kor said: Excellent. Then it shall be a matter of testing each other's wills. Of power. Survival must be earned, Captain. Tell me about the dispersal of your Starfleet.
. Kirk said: Go climb a tree.
Kor said: I can get what I want through our mind-scanner, but there would be very little of your mind left, Captain. I have no desire to see you become a vegetable. This friend of yours, the Vulcan. He seems to have the ability to block our scanner. I think perhaps I will find out why. I will have him dissected. Your friend killed. You, a mental vegetable. Not a pleasant prospect, Captain, but it lies ahead for you unless you tell me everything I want to know. Twelve hours, Captain.
Kirk said: It will take a lot longer than that, Commander.
Kor said: Longer than that I will not wait. I respect you, Captain, but this is war, a game we Klingons play to win. Take him to the cell with his friend. And watch him closely.
Scene: Cell.
It's a traditional mediaeval castle cell, big iron grills, straw on the floor, lit by ever-burning torches in sconces on the walls.
Spock said: It's no use, Jim. There's no way out.
Later.
Kirk said: How much of the twelve hours do we have left?
Spock said: Six hours, forty three minutes, if the Klingons are punctual.
Kirk said: I think we can count on them being punctual. Blowing that munitions dump wasn't enough. If we get out of here, we've got to carry the attack directly to Kor. These Organians
Spock said: They do not seem to understand. Most peculiar.
Kirk said: Nevertheless, our orders still stand. We've got to make some attempt to neutralise the Klingon occupation.
Spock said: We may not get the chance, Captain. These walls are very thick.
Kirk said: And there are guards every few feet down the hall.
There are sounds outside, then the door swings silently open on it's own. Spock and Kirk are ready to pounce on whoever enters.
Ayelborne said: Oh, there you are, gentlemen. I trust you are in good health? Shall we go?
Kirk said: Go?
Ayelborne said: Yes. Your captors plan to do violence to you. That we cannot permit. I came to take you away.
Kirk said: You turned us over to them. You expect us to trust you now?
Ayelborne said: Is there really a choice, Captain? I offer you safety.
Scene: Council Chamber.
Kirk said: We can't stay here. This is the first place they'll look.
Ayelborne said: They will not come here, Captain. You may believe me.
Kirk said: First you turn us in, then get us out. What are you doing now, waiting for the Klingons to post a reward so you can turn us in again and collect it?
Ayelborne said: How little you understand us, Captain.
Spock said: Nor do we understand what happened to the guard at the citadel.
Ayelborne said: Please do not concern yourself about them.
Kirk said: What happened to them?
Ayelborne said: Why, nothing happened to them, Captain. Nothing at all.
Scene: Kor's office.
Klingon said: Commander!
Kor said: Don't you see I'm busy?
Klingon said: The two Federation prisoners. They're gone.
Kor said: You mean they've escaped?
Klingon said: I swear. No one was at fault. The guards, ten of them were constantly on duty watching the cell. Then when they opened it to give them food, they simply weren't there, and there was no way out.
Kor said: If you're lying to me.
Klingon said: I swear!
Kor said: All right, Lieutenant. Implement Special Occupation Order Number Four. Immediately!
Klingon said: Sir!
Scene: Council Chamber.
Kirk said: Is that's all you can do, smile?
Ayelborne said: You are free, Captain.
Kirk said: I want to know how I'm free, and why.
Spock said: Indeed, there are several questions I would like to ask as well.
Kirk said: This idiotic placidity of yours, your refusal to do anything to protect yourselves
Ayelborne said: We have already answered that question. To us, violence is unthinkable.
Kor said: Attention. Attention all Organians. Attention. This is Commander Kor. The two Federation prisoners have escaped, obviously with outside aid.
Scene: Kor's office.
Kor said: They will be returned immediately. So that you will know we mean what we say, listen.
Scene: Council Chamber.
Kirk said: Those are Klingon phasers. Take the door. Get down, gentlemen.
Scene: Kor's office.
Kor said: In the courtyard of my headquarters,
Scene: Council Chamber.
Kor said: Two hundred Organians have just been killed.
KIRK; Two hundred of them.
Kor said: In two hours, two hundred more will die, and two hundred more after that until the two Federation spies are turned over to us. This is the order of Kor.
Kirk said: Did you hear them?
Ayelborne said: Yes, of course, Captain. But nothing has changed.
Kirk said: Well, Mister Spock. It seems it's up to you and me.
Spock said: It would appear so, Captain.
Kirk said: The Federation has invested a great deal of money in our training. They're about due for a small return. We have two hours with which to do it in.
Spock said: But only two. More Organians will die.
Kirk said: No. No more will die on account of us, Mister Spock. Where are those phasers?
Ayelborne said: I cannot tell you.
Kirk said: You've told us a great deal about how you hate violence. Unless you tell me where those phasers are, you're going to have more violence than you know what to do with.
Ayelborne said: You mean you would actually use force?
Kirk said: It's entirely up to you.
Trefayne said: Ayelborne, this is of no matter. Perhaps you'd better let him have what he wants. He
Ayelborne said: Very well, but it will do you no good. They're in that cabinet.
Spock gets them, but leaves the tricorder.
Kirk said: Gentlemen, I have no great love for you, your planet, your culture. Despite that, Mister Spock and I are going to go out there and quite probably die, in an attempt to show you that there are some things worth dying for.
Ayelborne said: There are only two of you against an army. Don't you realise that what you intend to do will be hopeless?
Kirk said: Come on, Mister Spock, let's get out of here.
The doors open politely to let them leave, then close again behind them.
Claymare said: Brave men.
Ayelborne said: Yes, but so foolish.
Trefayne said: Interesting, however.
Ayelborne said: Of course, we cannot allow it. To stop them is very bad.
Claymare said: It is necessary. They may harm one another.
Ayelborne said: Trefayne.
Trefayne said: They will wait until darkness.
Ayelborne said: And then?
Trefayne said: Terrible. Inconceivable. Savage.
Ayelborne said: We will wait.
Scene: Kor's headquarters.
Outside, under cover of darkness and bushes.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, can we get those two guards? What would you say the odds on our getting out of here?
Spock said: Difficult to be precise, Captain. I should say approximately 7,824.7 to 1.
Kirk said: Difficult to be precise? 7,824 to 1?;
Spock said: 7,824.7 to 1.
Kirk said: That's a pretty close approximation.
Spock said: I endeavour to be accurate.
Kirk said: You do quite well. Set your phaser on stun. We're after the top dog, not the members of the pack.
Spock said: Very good.
Kirk said: But if the situation calls for it, we kill, is that clear?
Spock said: Clear, Captain.
Kirk said: I'll take the one on the left. Fire.
Two stunned Klingons fall, and Kirk and Spock run into the building.
Scene: Council Chamber.
Trefayne said: It has begun.
Ayelborne said: Very well.
Claymare said: It will be hard.
Ayelborne said: Prepare yourselves.
They close their eyes and concentrate.
Scene: Corridor.
Klingon said: No results, Commander.
Kor said: Nothing?
Klingon said: I cannot understand these people.
Kor said: They know what death is, don't they?
Klingon said: They do not seem to be worried about anything.
Kor said: Bad enough to be a military governor, but to govern a population of sheep! Very well, Lieutenant, round up two hundred more.
Klingon said: Yes, sir.
Kor said: (going into his office) Fools! Will I have to kill them all?
The Klingons march off, and Kirk jumps one of them from a side corridor, getting his belt around the Lieutenant's neck.
Kirk said: If you don't tell me what I want to know, I'll kill you here and now. Is that clear?
Klingon said: Yes.
Kirk said: Is Kor's office down there?
Klingon said: Yes.
Kirk said: What about the hostages? Talk. Talk.
Klingon said: I am to gather two hundred more.
Kirk said: To be killed?
The Klingon nods.
Kirk said: Mister Spock.
Spock knocks the Klingon out with a neck pinch.
Kirk said: Well, what are the odds now?
Spock said: Less than seven thousand to one, Captain. It's remarkable we've got this far.
Kirk said: Less than seven thousand to one. Well, getting better. Getting better.
Scene: Kor's office.
Kirk said: Just stay where you are, Commander.
Kor said: You have done well to get this far through my guards.
Spock said: (taking his weapon) I believe you'll find that several of them are no longer in perfect operating condition.
Kor said: So, you are here. You will be interested in knowing that a Federation fleet is on its way here at the moment. Our fleet is preparing to meet them.
Kirk said: Checkmate, Commander.
Kor said: Shall we wait and see the results before you kill me?
Kirk said: I don't intend to kill you unless I have to.
Kor said: Sentimentality, mercy. The emotions of peace. Your weakness, Captain Kirk. The Klingon Empire shall win. Think of it, as we sit here, in space above us the destiny of the galaxy will be decided for the next ten thousand years. Can I offer you a drink? We can toast the victory of the Klingon fleet.
Spock said: You may be premature. There are many possibilities.
Kor said: Today we conquer. If some day we are defeated, well, war has its fortunes good and bad. Do you know why we are so strong? Because we are a unit. Each of us is part of the greater whole, always under surveillance. Even a commander like myself, always under surveillance, Captain. If you will note.
Kirk said: Cover, Spock! Back!
The Klingons burst it, then suddenly everyone drops their weapons. Everyone.
Kor said: Shoot! Shoot!
They try hand to hand, but are unable to touch each other without extreme pain. Up on the Enterprise, the crew suddenly leap out of their seats and away from their consoles.
Scene: Kor's office.
Kirk said: What is it, Spock?
Spock said: Inexplicable, Captain. Extreme heat. Not only the weapons but the bodies as well.
Ayelborne and Claymare come in.
Ayelborne said: We are terribly sorry to be forced to interfere, gentlemen, but we cannot permit you to harm yourselves.
Kor said: What are you talking about?
Claymare said: We have put a stop to your violence.
Kirk said: You are stopping this? You?
Claymare said: All instruments of violence on this planet now radiate a temperature of three hundred and fifty degrees. They are inoperative.
Kor said: My fleet!
Ayelborne said: The same conditions exist on both the star-fleets. There will be no battle.
Kor said: Ridiculous!
Ayelborne said: I suggest you contact them. You too, Captain. Your ship is now within range of your communications device.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise. Come in.
Sulu said: Captain.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: I can't explain it. We were just closing in on the Klingon fleet when
Scene: Kor's office.
Sulu said: Every control on our ship became too hot to handle.
Then it all goes dark, and he can touch the consoles again
Sulu said: Our power's gone. Our phaser banks are dead.
Kirk said: Stand by, Sulu.
Kor said: My fleet, it's helpless.
Kirk said: What have you done?
Ayelborne said: As I stand here, I also stand upon the home planet of the Klingon Empire, and the home planet of your Federation, Captain. I'm putting a stop to this insane war.
Kor said: You're what?
Kirk said: You're talking nonsense.
Ayelborne said: It is being done.
Kirk said: You can't just stop the fleet. What gives you the right?
Kor said: You can't interfere. What happens in space is not your business.
Ayelborne said: Unless both sides agree to an immediate cessation of hostilities, all your armed forces, wherever they may be, will be immediately immobilised.
Kirk said: We have legitimate grievances against the Klingons. They've invaded our territory, killed our citizens. They're openly aggressive. They've boasted that they'll take over half the galaxy.
Kor said: Why not? We're the stronger! You've tried to hem us in, cut off vital supplies, strangle our trade! You've been asking for war!
Kirk said: You're the ones who issued the ultimatum to withdraw from the disputed areas!
Kor said: They are not disputed! They're clearly ours. And now you step in with some kind of trick.
Ayelborne said: It is no trick, Commander. We have simply put an end to your war. All your military forces, wherever they are, are now completely paralysed.
Claymare said: We find interference in other people's affairs most disgusting, but you gentlemen have given us no choice.
Kirk said: You should be the first to be on our side. Two hundred hostages killed.
Ayelborne said: No one has been killed, Captain.
Claymare said: No one has died here in uncounted thousands of years.
Kor said: You are liars. You are meddling in things that are none of your business.
Kirk said: Even if you have some power that we don't understand, you have no right to dictate to our Federation
Kor said: Or our Empire!
Kirk said: How to handle their interstellar relations! We have the right
Ayelborne said: To wage war, Captain? To kill millions of innocent people? To destroy life on a planetary scale? Is that what you're defending?
Kirk said: Well, no one wants war. But there are proper channels. People have a right to handle their own affairs. Eventually, we would have;
Ayelborne said: Oh, eventually you will have peace, but only after millions of people have died. It is true that in the future, you and the Klingons will become fast friends. You will work together.
Kor said: Never!
Claymare said: Your emotions are most discordant. We do not wish to seem inhospitable, but gentlemen, you must leave.
Ayelborne said: Yes, please leave us. The mere presence of beings like yourselves is intensely painful to us.
Kirk said: What do you mean, beings like yourselves?
Ayelborne said: Millions of years ago, Captain, we were humanoid like yourselves, but we have developed beyond the need of physical bodies. That of us which you see is mere appearance for your sake.
Kor said: Captain, it's a trick. We can handle them. I have an army.
Kirk holds him back as Ayelborne and Claymare transform into pulsating lights, too bright to look at. Then they disappear.
Spock said: Fascinating. Pure energy. Pure thought. Totally incorporeal. Not life as we know it at all.
Kirk said: But what about this planet? The fields, the buildings, this citadel?
Spock said: Conventionalisations, I should say. Useless to the Organians. Created so that visitors such as ourselves, could have conventional points of reference.
Kor said: But is all of this possible?
Spock said: We have seen it with our own eyes. I should say the Organians are as far above us on the evolutionary scale as we are above the amoeba.
Kirk said: Well, Commander, I guess that takes care of the war. Obviously, the Organians aren't going to let us fight.
Kor said: A shame, Captain. It would have been glorious.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: You've been most restrained since we left Organia.
Kirk said: I'm embarrassed. I was furious with the Organians for stopping a war I didn't want. We think of ourselves as the most powerful beings in the universe. It's unsettling to discover that we're wrong.
Spock said: Captain, it took millions of years for the Organians to evolve into what they are. Even the gods did not spring into being overnight. You and I have no reason to be embarrassed. We did, after all, beat the odds.
Kirk said: Oh, no, no, no, Mister Spock, We didn't beat the odds. We didn't have a chance. The Organians raided the game.