Operation: Annihilate!
Stardate: 3287.2
Original Airdate: 13 Apr, 1967
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Anything, Lieutenant?
Uhura said: No, sir. I've tried every major transmitting station on Deneva. None of them have acknowledged my contact signal.
Kirk said: Try GSK-783, sub-space frequency 3.
Uhura said: But sir, that's a call sign for a private transmitter.
Kirk said: I'm very well aware of that, Lieutenant. Try it.
Uhura said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Evaluation, Mister Spock.
Spock said: As I speculated, Captain, the overall pattern of mass insanity destroying civilisations follows an almost straight line through this section of the galaxy. Over here the Beta Portilin system the ancient civilisations. Archaeologists have given us information indicating that they were the beginning. Two hundred years ago, Levinius Five was swept by mass insanity, then Theta Cygni Twelve. The last was Ingraham B, two years ago.
Kirk said: And next in line, Deneva. Bones, what's your theory about the cause of all this?
Mccoy said: There's no medical or scientific cause for what happened on those planets. Jim.
Kirk said: But it follows a definite pattern, a systematic progression from planet to planet.
Sulu said: Captain, we're picking up a ship on our sensors, heading directly into the Denevan sun. He'll burn up.
Kirk said: Plot an interception course, Mister Sulu. Warp factor eight. Lieutenant Uhura, try to contact that ship.
Uhura said: Aye, aye, sir.
Spock said: The ship is a one-man vessel of Denevan configuration, Captain. He does not seem to be out of control. His course is straight for the sun.
Kirk said: Scotty, tractor beams?
Scott said: Out of range, sir.
Uhura said: Making contact, Captain.
Kirk said: Denevan ship, this is the USS Enterprise. Can you reverse your course? Acknowledge.
Scott said: Captain, we'll get too close to the sun.
Kirk said: Keep closing. Denevan ship, reverse your course. Do you hear me? Reverse your course. Acknowledge.
Spock said: Outer hull temperature now four hundred and eighty degrees and rising.
Sulu said: He's too close, Captain.
Spock said: So are we. Hull temperature one thousand degrees and rising. The sun's gravimetric pull increasing.
Pilot said: I did it. It's finally gone. I'm free. I'm
Sulu said: He burned up, Captain.
Kirk said: Reverse course. One hundred and eighty degrees about.
Sulu said: Aye, sir.
Spock said: All clear, Captain. Hull temperature falling, gravimetric pull approaching tolerance level.
Kirk said: Very well. Reduce to sub-warp speed. Take us to Deneva.
Sulu said: Aye, aye, sir.
Kirk said: That Denevan ship headed deliberately into the sun. Why?
Mccoy said: There's one possibility. The mass insanity may have reached this planet, too.
Uhura said: Captain, I'm having difficulty on that transmitter call to Deneva.
Kirk said: Keep trying.
Uhura said: Yes, sir.
Mccoy said: Jim, your brother Sam and his family, aren't they stationed on this planet?
Captain's log stardate 3287.2. The mass insanity we have tracked across this section of the galaxy seems to have already touched Deneva. That planet, colonised over a century ago, is one of the most beautiful in the galaxy.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Planet development is normal, Captain. Originally colonised as a freighting-line base in this area.
Scott said: Aye, they make regular trips from here carrying supplies to the asteroid belt for the miners and bringing cargo out. I've made the run a couple of times myself as an engineering advisor.
Spock said: No Federation contacts for over a year.
Uhura said: Captain. I've made contact with your private transmitter, sir.
Kirk said: Put it on audio.
Aurelan said: Please hurry. Help us. I don't have much time. They'll know. Please! Please help us
Kirk said: Aurelan, this is Jim on the Enterprise. Repeat your message.
Uhura said: Contact broken, sir.
Kirk said: Re-establish.
Uhura said: Sorry, sir.
Kirk said: I'm not interested in your excuses, Lieutenant. Re-establish contact with that transmitter.
Uhura said: I'm afraid that's impossible at the moment, Captain. They stopped broadcasting immediately. They do not acknowledge my contact signal.
Kirk said: Keep trying to raise them.
Uhura said: Yes, sir.
Mccoy said: Jim, did you know who that woman was?
Kirk said: Yes. You were right a while back. My brother Sam lives on Deneva. He's a research biologist. That woman sounded like his wife Aurelan.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: Set your phasers on stun. We're going to beam directly into the capital city. Alert status. Mister Spock.
Spock said: Lieutenant Uhura has had no further response to our signals. Sensors report the expected number of humans on the planet surface. However, they are strangely quiet. Very little activity.
Kirk said: I'll want a complete transcript of everything that happens down there, Yeoman.
Zahra said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Let's go. Energise.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk, Spock, McCoy, Scott, the Yeoman and two security guards beam into an open area with grass, formal ponds and sculpture in front of a concrete and glass-fronted building.
Kirk said: There are almost a million inhabitants of Deneva. There's more than one hundred thousand in this city alone. Where is everyone?
Spock said: They're here, Captain. In the buildings. Strangely quiescent.
Kirk said: My brother's lab is over there. They signalled us once. There should be someone there. Let's find out what's happening.
Spock said: Captain, several people approaching.
Men said: Go back! Get away! We don't want to hurt you! Go back! Get out of here. Go on, get away! Go away! Get out of here! We don't want to hurt you.
Kirk said: Stand by to fire. Fire.
The four attacking men are stunned.
Kirk said: Did you hear what they said, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Indeed. They seemed most concerned for our safety.
Kirk said: They tried to brain us with these clubs. Check them out, Bones.
Spock said: Their attitude was inconsistent with their actions.
Kirk said: To say the least.
Mccoy said: There's something wrong, Jim. Their nervous systems. Unconscious like this, there should be just routine autonomic activity, but I'm getting a very high reading, as though even in their unconscious state, they're being violently stimulated.
A woman's scream cuts the air.
Kirk said: Fan out. Follow me. Security.
Scene: Laboratory.
A woman is trying to cover the air vents. A man and a boy are lying on the floor.
Aurelan said: They're here! They're here! Please keep them away!
Kirk said: (bearhugging her) Aurelan.
Aurelan said: They're here! They're here!
Kirk said: Bones. (McCoy sedates her) Aurelan, you're safe now.
Mccoy said: Is this your brother, Jim?
Kirk said: Sam. It is my brother. Was my brother.
Mccoy said: I'm sorry, Jim. The boy's unconscious, but he's still alive.
Kirk said: Peter?
Mccoy said: I'd better get the boy and his mother back to the ship. I can't do much for them down here.
Kirk said: Get ready to beam up.
Mccoy said: McCoy to Enterprise. Prepare to beam up party of four.
Spock said: Captain, I understand how you must
Kirk said: Yes. Yes, Mister Spock. You heard my sister-in-law say something about they being here. Your guess.
Spock said: Notice the ventilator, Captain. Apparently they were trying to keep something outside from getting in. Obviously they were not entirely successful.
Kirk said: It doesn't make sense. There are no harmful life forms reported. Our sensors didn't pick up anything that didn't belong here.
Spock said: That is correct. I am at a loss to understand it.
Mccoy said: Ready to beam up, Captain. I'd like you to be onboard when your sister-in-law regains consciousness.
Kirk said: Take charge of the landing party, Mister Spock. I want some answers to all this.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: I won't be able to give you the exact cause until I get the plates back from the lab. They're both in extreme pain. I sedated them heavily. But your sister-in-law seems to have a high tolerance. The tranquilliser hasn't affected her much.
Kirk said: Can she talk?
Mccoy said: Yes.
Kirk said: Aurelan? Aurelan, it's Jim.
Aurelan said: Jim? Sam, he's
Kirk said: He's dead. But your son's still alive. You've got to help us.
Aurelan said: You are here. It is you, Jim.
Kirk said: Yes, I'm here. You have to tell us what happened, Aurelan, to you and the others.
Aurelan said: They came eight months ago.
Kirk said: Who?
Aurelan said: Things. Horrible things! Visitors brought them in their vessel from a planet. Ingraham B.
Kirk said: What kind of things?
Aurelan said: Not the ship's crew's fault. The things made them bring their ship here.
Kirk said: Aurelan, it's important that you tell us. What kind of things?
Aurelan said: Not their fault.
She starts screaming and crying again, so McCoy gives her another shot.
Mccoy said: When she answers questions, any questions, it's as if she's fighting to get the answers out. As though something is exerting pain to stop her.
Aurelan said: They use it to control us. They're spreading, Jim. They need us to be their arms and legs. They're forcing us to build ships for them. Don't let them! Don't let them go any further!
(One last scream and convulsion, then all her readings plummet to zero. KIRK: My brother's son?
Mccoy said: I'll do everything I can, Jim, to save him.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: Report.;
Spock said: The streets are extraordinarily quiet, Captain. We've seen no other Denevans, and the ones we stunned earlier were gone when we came out.
Kirk said: You've seen some kind of creature? Any alien form?
Scott said: None, sir. Just that noise we heard.
Spock said: A peculiar buzzing sound. We were about to investigate it.
Kirk said: All right. Let's go find out what it is. Set your phasers on force three, to kill. We're looking for some kind of creature, and we already know it will kill.
Scene: Courtyard.
They go down some steps into a shady courtyard where the noise is coming from. There are gelatinous-looking creatures attached to the shady side of a lintel.
Kirk said: Spock!
One detaches and flies around them.
Kirk said: Form a ring. Fire!
After a prolonged burst, one falls to the ground and the others fly off.
Spock said: Incredible. Not only should it have been destroyed by our phasers, it does not even register on my tricorder.
Zahra said: Captain, it doesn't even look real.
Spock said: It is not life as we know or understand it. Yet t is obviously alive, it exists.
Kirk said: And it can bear up under full phaser power.
Spock said: Captain, I suggest we risk taking it aboard.
Kirk said: It's too close in here. It may be a trap in here. Let's move out.
As they head up the stairs, the felled creature revives and lands on Spock's back. He falls back in pain.
Kirk said: Spock! Spock! (He pulls it off) It's gone. Can you stand? Spock, are you all right?
Captain's log supplemental. Whatever the creatures are, they have apparently taken over all the inhabitants of Deneva. Meanwhile, ship's surgeon Doctor McCoy is examining a strange puncture wound left by one of the creatures on Mister Spock's back.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: Nurse. That's the second time he's come out of it. Either he's fighting us, or something inside of him is fighting us.
Chapel said: Doctor, the readings have never looked like that before, not even on Mister Spock.
Mccoy said: Let's prepare to close. Nurse!
Chapel said: Doctor, that's not all you're going to do?
Mccoy said: Miss Chapel.
Chapel said: Doctor, there is more of it in him, entwined all through his body.
Mccoy said: Miss Chapel, if you cannot assist me as required, call another nurse in here. But do one or the other now.
Scene: Bridge.
McCoy enters in his surgical scrubs, carrying a jar.
Kirk said: How is he?
Mccoy said: To be very frank, Jim, I don't know that I can do anything for Spock or your nephew. (hold up the jar) They're pieces of some form of living tissue. I removed one from Spock's spinal cord, the other from your sister-in-law's body. They're both the same. The boy's too weak to touch. Besides, removal of the tissue wouldn't stop the pain anyhow as far as I can tell.
Kirk said: Did you operate on Spock in time?
Mccoy said: No. I just removed these for examination. His body's full of these tentacles, entwining and growing all about his nervous system.
Kirk said: My nephew?
Mccoy said: The same. Evidently, when the creature attacks, it leaves a stinger much like a bee or wasp, leaving one of these in the victim's body. It takes over the victim very rapidly, and the entwining is far, far too involved for conventional surgery to remove.
Kirk said: Recommendations?
Mccoy said: I'm sorry, Jim. The lab, the science departments, we're all stumped.
Scene: Sickbay.
Spock said: No! No! (he sits up)
Chapel said: Mister Spock.
Spock said: (hoarsely) No, I won't.
Chapel said: Mister Spock.
Spock leaves
Chapel said: Bridge, this is Sickbay. Tell Doctor McCoy Mister Spock just left here.
Scene: Bridge.
Chapel said: He's delirious and possibly dangerous.
Kirk said: All decks, security alert. Locate and restrain Mister Spock. He may be dangerous. Use phasers on stun if necessary.
Spock enters the Bridge and throws Sulu out of his seat.
Spock said: I must take the ship.
Three of them wrestle him to the floor as Chapel enters and hands a hypo to McCoy.
Spock said: Down! I must take it down.
McCoy sedates him.
Kirk said: Get him back to the Sickbay. Use security restraints.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: The K3 indicator registers the level of pain. Watch as I turn it on. That's what he's been going through. I've never seen anything like it. No wonder the poor devils go mad.
Spock said: Doctor McCoy. Captain.
Kirk said: Spock.
Spock said: These restraints will no longer be necessary. Nor will your sedatives, Doctor. I'll be able to return to duty. I apologise for my weakness earlier when I tried to take control of the ship. I simply did not understand.
What is there to understand, Mister Spock?
Spock said: I am a Vulcan, Doctor. Pain is a thing of the mind. The mind can be controlled.
Kirk said: You're only half-Vulcan. What about the human half of you?
Spock said: It is proving to be an inconvenience, but it is manageable. And the creature, with all of its thousands of parts, even now is pressuring me. (the pain indicator hits the top of the monitor) It wants this ship, but I am resisting.
Kirk said: Can he control it the way he says, Bones?
Mccoy said: Who knows, Jim? I know the amount of pain the creature can inflict upon him, but whether he can control it hour to hour
Spock said: I have my own will, Captain. Let me help.
Kirk said: I need you, Spock, but we can't take any chances. We'll keep you confined for a while longer. If you can maintain control, we'll see. My nephew. If he regains consciousness, will he go through that?
Mccoy said: Yes.
Kirk said: Help them. I don't care what it takes or costs. You've got to help them.
Mccoy said: Jim, aren't you forgetting something? There are over a million colonists on that planet down there, just as much your responsibility. They need your help, too.
They leave.
Spock said: I am a Vulcan. I am a Vulcan. There is no pain.
Then he breaks his restraints.
Scene: Transporter room.
Scott said: Mister Spock, I thought you were still confined to Sickbay.
Spock said: I was.
Scott said: Here, now. Where do you think you're going?
Spock said: I have an errand on the planet's surface. You will beam me down to the same co-ordinates as before.
Scott said: Not likely, Mister Spock.
Spock said: That is an order, Mister Scott.
Scott said: Aye, sir, and I'm sorry I have to disobey it. The Captain said no one was to transport down. Mister Spock.
Spock pushes Scott aside and neck-pinches his assistant. But Scott has a phaser in his hand when he gets up again.
Scott said: Freeze right there, Mister Spock, or I'll put you to sleep for sure. This is Mister Scott in the transporter room. Get me the Captain.
Soon after, Kirk enters with an entourage, and the other man is rubbing his shoulder.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, I gave you an order to stay in the Sickbay.
Spock said: Until the pain was gone, Captain. It has been discontinued by me.
Kirk said: Scotty?
Scott said: He said he was transporting down to the surface, sir. Your orders were that no one was to beam down unless you authorised it. And knowing Mister Spock's determination on some things, I thought I'd better hold him here until I got your orders.
Spock said: One of the creatures will have to be captured and analysed, Captain. We did not have a clear opportunity to do so earlier when I was attacked. Since my nervous system is already affected, as you pointed out, Doctor, I don't believe they can do much more to me.
Mccoy said: Jim, this is ridiculous. I don't want my patients running around. He should be in bed.
Spock said: I am in complete control of myself, Doctor. The fact that I am here proves that I do not belong in bed.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, your logic, as usual, is inescapable. Beam him down. Stay in constant touch with us. Give him your phaser. He'll need that, too.
Spock said: Thank you, Captain.
Kirk said: Energise.
Scene: Corridor.
Mccoy said: Jim, that man is sick. Don't give me any damnable logic about him being the only man for the job.
Kirk said: I don't have to, Bones. We both know he is.
Scene: Planet surface.
A man tries to attack Spock, but is neck-pinched. After struggling to regain his self-control, Spock returns to the courtyard of the gel-creatures. He phasers one off the lintel and puts it into a metal box.
Scene: Science lab.
Kirk and McCoy enter.
Spock said: Come in, gentlemen. I believe you'll find this interesting. (McCoy scans Spock.) Doctor, your medical skill and curiosity are quite admirable, but I assure you I'm all right.
Mccoy said: You may be controlling the pain, Mister Spock, but you're far from all right.
Spock said: Unimportant at the moment, Doctor. Please observe. Interesting, gentlemen. A one-celled creature resembling, more than anything else, a huge, individual brain cell.
Kirk said: Yes. That would answer a lot of questions.
Spock said: Do you understand what I'm suggesting, Captain?
Kirk said: I think so. This may be one cell in a larger organism. An incredibly huge organism, in fact.
Spock said: And although it is not physically connected to the other cells, it is nevertheless part of the whole creature, guided by the whole, drawing its strength from the whole, which probably accounts for its unusual resistance to our phaser weapons.
Kirk said: Existing so differently from any living matter or energy as we know it, that it may have come here, planet by planet, from an entirely different galaxy.
Spock said: From a place where our physical laws do not apply. We may therefore find it difficult to destroy, Captain.
Kirk said: But not impossible, Mister Spock. The Denevan that flew into the sun cried out that he was free, that he'd won. That's the angle to work on, gentlemen. I want an analysis of all this from Medical and Life Science departments within the hour.
Spock said: Yes, sir.
Kirk leaves, then McCoy.
Later, Chapel is working with McCoy when Kirk enters.
Mccoy said: I'm sorry, Captain. I've tried everything I can. Variant radiation, intense heat, even as great as nine thousand degrees.
Kirk said: Then you're wasting your time. There has to be something that'll kill the creature without destroying the human host.
Mccoy said: Which happens to be my point. The thing won't die, even at temperatures and radiation which would burn Spock and your nephew to ashes.
Kirk said: I can't accept that, Bones. We've got fourteen science labs aboard this ship. The finest equipment and computers in the galaxy.
Mccoy said: Captain, I understand your concern. Your affection for Spock, the fact that your nephew is the last survivor of your brother's family.
Kirk said: No, no, Bones. There's more than two lives at stake here. I cannot let it spread beyond this colony, even if it means destroying a million people down there.
Captain's log, stardate 3289.8. I am faced with the most difficult decision of my life. Unless we find a way to destroy the creatures without killing their human hosts, my command responsibilities will force me to kill over a million people.
Scene: Briefing room.
Kirk said: Gentlemen.
Spock said: I regret I see no other choice for you, Captain. We already know this thing has destroyed three civilisations. Perhaps more.
Mccoy said: Gentlemen, I want it stopped, too, but not at the cost of destroying over a million people.
Spock said: Including myself, Doctor, and Captain Kirk's young nephew. Understandably upsetting, but once it spreads past here, there are dozens of colonies beyond and billions of people.
Mccoy said: If killing five people saves ten, it's a bargain. Is that your simple logic, Mister Spock?
Kirk said: I will accept neither of those alternatives, gentlemen. I cannot let this thing expand beyond this planet, nor do I intend to kill a million or more people to stop it. I want another answer. I'm putting you gentlemen on the hot seat with me. I want that third alternative.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Kirk said: Report.
Mccoy said: I'm sorry, Jim. We've been over and over it, made every conceivable test.
Spock said: I therefore request permission to beam down to the planet's surface. I also suggest that your nephew accompany me.
Kirk said: Request denied.
Spock said: Captain, I do not make this request lightly. I do not know how much longer I can hold out against the pain. But I do know what the boy will go through should he regain consciousness.
Kirk said: Request denied. There must be another answer. Something in the sun killed that thing before the Denevan died. All right. All right. We've tried heat, radiation. What other qualities or properties does the sun have?
Spock said: It exists physically. It occupies space. It has mass, therefore gravity. It converts matter to energy.
Mccoy said: Jim, we've been through it and through it. Radiation, heat
Kirk said: But one other thing you haven't mentioned. It's bright. It radiates a blinding light if you're close enough.
Mccoy said: Nothing lethal about light.
Kirk said: Not to us. But down on the surface, the creatures stayed in the shadows for the most part. Suppose they weren't simply hiding. Suppose they're sensitive to light. Light, like in a sun, close up.
Spock said: A possibility.
Mccoy said: You can't move Deneva closer to the sun, Jim.
Kirk said: No, but you can move the equivalent of the sun to Deneva. Mister Spock?
Spock said: Yes. In essence, it can be done. A string of satellites around the planet with burning tri-magnesite and trevium.
Mccoy said: Well, I can rig a test cubicle in the bio-lab, put our specimen in it. But I don't
Kirk said: Good. Let's get on it.
Scene: Bio-lab.
Chapel puts the creature's jar into a large chamber.
Kirk said: Your figures are, of course, accurate.
Spock said: Of course. The light of the sun at the proximity where the Denevan declared himself free was one million candles per square inch. If this works, the satellites we orbit will produce light of such intensity that even someone in a closed, darkened area will be affected by it.
Chapel said: Ready, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Put on your masks.
They cover their eyes with goggles while the light is shone in the chamber.
Mccoy said: Completed.
They open the chamber. The thing is still.
Mccoy said: It worked! We can do it. What's the matter, Jim? We can do it.
Kirk said: It worked in a lab. With the creature exposed to everything we can give it. But what about the people who are infected?
Mccoy said: Well, I don't know. Maybe trial
Kirk said: Maybe. There's no time for maybes, Bones. We need to know now.
Mccoy said: But I'd have to put a
Kirk said: Yes, we'd have to put someone who's infected under that light.
Mccoy said: Do you have any idea of the risk?
Kirk said: We have to duplicate the conditions on the planet, and Spock
Spock said: Captain, you'll need a host for the next step in the test to determine whether the creature can be driven from the body. I am the logical choice.
Mccoy said: Do you know what one million candlelight per square inch can do to your optic nerves?
Kirk said: There's no other way, Bones. We have to duplicate the brilliance that existed at the moment the Denevan declared himself freed.
Mccoy said: All right. I'll rig up a protective pair of goggles.
Spock said: There'll be none on the planet's surface, Doctor.
Kirk said: I agree completely.
Mccoy said: Unfortunately, you're both right. It's the only thing we can do. All right, Mister Spock.
Spock enters the experimental chamber.
Mccoy said: Mister Spock's the best first officer in the fleet.
Kirk said: Proceed.
Spock sits facing the light source and gets the full blast.
Mccoy said: Completed.
They open the chamber, and Spock stands.
Kirk said: Spock, are you all right?
Spock said: The creature within me is gone. I am free of it and the pain.
He walks forward, straight into a table.
Spock said: And I'm also quite blind. An equitable trade, Doctor. Thank you.
They help him into a chair, and Chapel rushes in.
Chapel said: Doctor, the results of the first tests on the creature's remains.
She leaves.;
Mccoy said: (reading) Oh, no.
Kirk said: What is it?
Mccoy said: I threw the total spectrum of light at the creature. It wasn't necessary. I didn't stop to think that only one kind of light might've killed it.
Spock said: Interesting. Just as dogs are sensitive to certain sounds which humans cannot hear, these creatures evidently are sensitive to light which we cannot see.
Kirk said: Are you telling me that Spock need not have been blinded?
Mccoy said: I didn't need to throw the blinding white light at all, Jim. Spock, I
Spock said: Doctor it was my selection as well. It is done.
Kirk said: Bones, take care of him.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Completing the seeding orbit, Captain. Two hundred and ten ultraviolet satellites now in position. Seventy two miles altitude, permanent orbit about the planet.
Kirk said: Good. Scanners?
Scott said: Scanners ready, sir.
KIRK; Very well. Ready, Helm?
Sulu said: Ready, Captain.
Kirk said: Satellite control, this is the Captain. Energise all satellites.
Man said: Affirmative.
Scott said: All satellites operative, Captain.
Down on the planet, gel-creatures are dropping to the ground and dissolving.
Uhura said: Captain, receiving messages from a ground station.
Kirk said: Report.
Uhura said: The things are dying, sir. It's working.
Kirk said: Sickbay.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: McCoy here.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Tell Spock it worked.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: Yes, Captain. He'll be happy to hear that.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Bones, it wasn't your fault.
Scene: Sickbay.
Kirk said: Bones.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Bones.
Later.
Kirk said: Yeoman, record this for Starfleet Command.
Zahra said: Ready, sir.
Kirk said: The alien creatures on Deneva have been destroyed
Zahra said: Captain, look. Mister Spock.
Spock walks onto the Bridge, followed by McCoy.
Kirk said: Spock. You can see.
Mccoy said: The blindness was temporary, Jim. There's something about his optical nerves which aren't the same as a human's.
Spock said: An hereditary trait, Captain. The brightness of the Vulcan sun has caused the development of an inner eyelid, which acts as a shield against high-intensity light. Totally instinctive, Doctor. We tend to ignore it, as you ignore your own appendix.
Kirk said: Mister Spock. Regaining eyesight would be an emotional experience for most. You, I presume, felt nothing?
Spock said: Quite the contrary, Captain. I had a very strong reaction. My first sight was the face of Doctor McCoy bending over me.
Mccoy said: 'Tis a pity your brief blindness did not increase your appreciation for beauty, Mister Spock.
Kirk said: If you gentlemen are finished, would you mind laying in a course for Starbase Ten, Mister Spock?
Spock said: My pleasure, Captain.
Mccoy said: Unusual eye arrangement. I might've known he'd turn up with something like that.
Kirk said: What's that, Doctor?
Mccoy said: I said, please don't tell Spock I said he was the best first officer in the fleet.
Spock said: Why, thank you, Doctor McCoy.
Kirk said: You've been so concerned about his Vulcan eyes, Doctor, you forgot about his Vulcan ears. Ahead warp factor one, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Warp factor one, sir.