Space Seed
Stardate: 3141.9
Original Airdate: 16 Feb, 1967
Scene: Bridge.
Spinelli said: Coming up on it fast, sir.
Kirk said: Are you certain of your sensor readings?
Spock said: Definitely a space vessel of some type.
Kirk said: Origin?
Spock said: Unknown. It could hardly be an Earth ship. There have been no flights into this sector for years.
Uhura said: I'm picking up a signal, sir. (a series of beeps comes over the speakers) Captain, that's the old Morse code call signal.
Kirk said: Thank you.
Uhura said: CQ. CQ.
Kirk said: We're reading it, Lieutenant. I thought you said it couldn't possibly be an Earth vessel.
Spock said: I fail to understand why it always gives you pleasure to see me proven wrong.
Kirk said: An emotional Earth weakness of mine. There it is.
The ship appears on the viewscreen.
Kirk said: An old Earth vessel, similar to the DY=500 class.
Spock said: Much older. DY-100 class, to be exact. Captain, the last such vessel was built centuries ago, back in the 1990s.
Kirk said: Then it's a derelict, its signal left on automatic.
Spock said: Or an old Earth ship being used by aliens.
Kirk said: Weapons status.
Weapons said: Deflector shields on maximum. Phasers manned, sir.
Kirk said: Bioscanners report.
Mccoy said: Life science bioscanners are picking up heart beats from over there. Can't be human, though. They're too faint, and average only four beats per minute.
Spock said: Sensor reading, Captain. Some sort of equipment functioning on that vessel.
Kirk said: All decks go to full alert.
(Enterprise comes alongside the smaller ship, which is still as big as the engineering hull.
Captain's log, stardate 3141.9. A full hour has elapsed since interception of the strange vessel. Our presence alongside is still being completely ignored. Although our sensors continue to show signs of equipment and life aboard, there has been no indication of danger to us.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Weapons department, maintain battle stations. All other decks standby alert.
Uhura said: All decks acknowledging, sir.
Mccoy said: We're continuing to pick up some form of heart action over there. Very faint, very slow. Seems to be coming from about sixty or seventy bodies, as near as I can tell.
Kirk said: Alien bodies, Bones?
Mccoy said: Could be. There's no sign of breathing or other form of respiration.
Spock said: Hull surface is pitted with meteor scars. However, scanners make out a name. SS Botany Bay.
Kirk said: Then you can check the registry.
Spock said: No such vessel listed. Records of that period are fragmentary, however. The mid=1990s was the era of your last so-called World War.
Mccoy said: The Eugenics Wars.
Spock said: Of course. Your attempt to improve the race through selective breeding.
Mccoy said: Now, wait a minute. Not our attempt, Mister Spock. A group of ambitious scientists. I'm sure you know the type. Devoted to logic, completely unemotional
Kirk said: All right, all right, gentlemen. As you were. Rig for tractor beam, Helm. Lock onto that vessel.
Spinelli said: Rigging for tractor beam, sir.
Kirk said: The Bridge is yours, Mister Spock. Care to join the landing party, Doctor?
Mccoy said: Well, if you're actually giving me a choice
Kirk said: I'm not. Oh, I'll need somebody familiar with the late 20th-Century Earth. Here's a chance for that historian to do something for a change. What's her name? McIvers?
Spock said: Lieutenant McGivers.
Scene: McGiver's quarters.
Lt McGivers is just about to settle down to some painting, when
Spock said: Attention. The following personnel report to transporter room. Engineering Officer Scott, Lieutenant McGivers. Acknowledge.
Marla said: McGivers. On my way.
Scene: Transporter room.
Scott said: Well, it looks like that ship was expecting us. We read heat coming on, complete oxygen atmosphere.
Kirk said: Very interesting. You ready, Bones? MCCOY: No. I signed aboard this ship to practice medicine, not to have my atoms scattered back and forth across space by this gadget.
Kirk said: You're an old-fashioned boy, McCoy. Where's that historian? (McGivers enters) Come on, Lieutenant
Marla said: McGivers, sir.
Kirk said: Energise.
Scene: SS Botany Bay.
Men and women are lying in clear-sided compartments, seemingly asleep. KIRK: Scotty?
Scott said: Definitely Earth-type mechanism, sir. Twentieth century vessel. Old type atomic power. Bulky, solid. I think they used to call them transistor units. I'd love to tear this baby apart.
Marla said: Captain, it's a sleeper ship.
Kirk said: Suspended animation.
Marla said: I've seen old photographs of this. Necessary because of the time involved in space travel until about the year 2018. It took years just to travel from one planet to another.
Kirk said: Is it possible they're still alive after centuries of travel?
Mccoy said: It's theoretically possible. I've never heard of it being tested for this long a period.
Marla said: What a handsome group of people.
Mccoy said: Jim, I have a new reading. The lights must have triggered some mechanism.
Marla said: Captain, look here.
They go to the compartment holding a dark-haired man.
Kirk said: Scotty?
Scott said: Beats me what's happening.
Mccoy said: We've triggered something, all right. His heart beat's increasing. Now passing eight beats per minute. There are some signs of respiration beginning.
Scott said: This one was probably programmed to be triggered first.
Kirk said: Could he be the leader? The leader. Lieutenant?
Marla said: (dragging herself back from just gazing at the man) Yes, sir. The leader was often set to revive first. This would allow him to decide whether the conditions warranted revival of the others.
Mccoy said: Heart beat now approaching forty per minute. The respiration pattern is firming up.
Marla said: From the northern India area, I'd guess. Probably a Sikh. They were the most fantastic warriors.
Mccoy said: Heart beat now fifty two and increasing.
Kirk said: The others?
Scott said: There's no change, and they're mixed types. Western, mid-European, Latin, Oriental.
Marla said: A man from the twentieth century coming alive.
Mccoy said: Maybe. Heart beat dropping.
Kirk said: Circuit shorting.
Scott said: Probably some dust.
Mccoy said: Heartbeat now thirty, dropping fast. It's a heart flutter. He's dying.
Marla said: Do something, Captain.
Kirk said: Can we?
Scott said: It'd take an hour to figure it out.
Kirk said: What happens if we get him out of there?
Mccoy said: He'll die in seconds if we don't.
Kirk uses something metal in his hand to break the glass and open the compartment. The man is slid out on a trolley, gasping and awake. He tries to speak.
Khan said: How long?
Kirk said: How long have you been sleeping? Two centuries we estimate. Landing party to Enterprise. Come in.
Uhura said: Go ahead, boarding party. We read you.
Kirk said: Lock in on McCoy's beam. He's transporting back with a casualty we discovered here.
Marla said: Magnificent.
Captain's log, supplemental. Alongside the SS Botany Bay for ten hours now. A boarding party of engineering and medical specialists are now completing their examination of the mysterious vessel. Attempts to revive other sleepers await our success or failure with the casualty already beamed over. Doctor McCoy is frankly amazed at his physical and recuperative power.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Kirk to boarding party.
Scott said: Scott here.
Kirk said: Scotty, any records, log books of any kind?
Scene: SS Botany Bay.
Scott said: Negative, Captain. It appears they were in suspended animation when the ship took off.
Kirk said: How many alive?
Scott said: Twelve units have malfunctioned, leaving seventy two still operating. Thirty of those are women.
Kirk said: Kirk out. Seventy two alive. A group of people dating back to the 1990s. A discovery of some importance, Mister Spock. There are a great many unanswered questions about those years.
Spock said: A strange, violent period in your history. I find no record what so ever of an SS Botany Bay. Captain, the DY-100 class vessel was designed for interplanetary travel only. With simple nuclear-powered engines, star travel was considered impractical at that time. It was ten thousand to one against their making it to another star system. And why no record of the trip?
Kirk said: Botany Bay. That was the name of a penal colony on shores of Australia, wasn't it? If they took that name for their vessel
Spock said: If you're suggesting this was a penal deportation vessel, you've arrived at a totally illogical conclusion.
Kirk said: Oh?
Spock said: Your Earth was on the verge of a dark ages. Whole populations were being bombed out of existence. A group of criminals could have been dealt with far more efficiently than wasting one of their most advanced spaceships.
Kirk said: Yes. So much for my theory. I'm still waiting to hear yours.
Spock said: Even a theory requires some facts, Captain. So far I have none.
Kirk said: And that irritates you, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Irritation?
Kirk said: Yeah.
Spock said: I am not capable of that emotion.
Kirk said: My apologies, Mister Spock. You suspect some danger in them?
Spock said: Insufficient facts always invites danger, Captain.
Kirk said: Well, we'd better get some facts. Rig for towing.
Spinelli said: Aye, aye, sir.
Kirk said: Make course for Starbase Twelve.
Spock said: Aye, sir.
Scene: Sickbay - medical ward.
At Khan's bedside
Mccoy said: (to nurse) That'll be all. (she leaves)
Kirk said: Bones?
Mccoy said: He'll live.
Kirk said: My compliments.
Mccoy said: No, I'm good, but not that good. There's something inside this man that refuses to accept death. Look at that. Even as he is now, his heart valve action has twice the power of yours and mine. Lung efficiency is fifty percent better.
McGivers enters
Kirk said: An improved breed of human. That's what the Eugenics War was all about.
Mccoy said: I'd estimate he could lift us both with one arm. It will be interesting to see if his brain matches his body.
Marla said: Doctor, will he live?
Mccoy said: It appears he will, Lieutenant. (leaves)
Kirk said: I'd like to talk to you.
They go out into the main area, where McCoy is at his desk
Kirk said: If I were to rate your performance as a member of the landing party today I
Marla said: I know, sir. I'm sorry.
Kirk said: Lieutenant, at any one time, the safety of this entire vessel might depend upon the performance of a single crewman, and the fact that you find a man strangely compelling to you personally
Marla said: Not personally, Captain. Professionally. My profession is historian, and when I find a specimen from the past alive, I'm in the sheer delight of examining his mind.
Kirk said: And men were more adventuresome then. Bolder, more colourful.
Marla said: Yes, sir, I think they were.
Kirk said: Good. If I can have honesty, it's easier to overlook mistakes. That's all.
Marla said: Yes, sir.
She leaves
Mccoy said: A pity you wasted your life on command, Jim. You'd have made a fair psychologist.
Kirk said: Fair? (leaves)
In the ward, Khan wakes, gets out of bed and does some stretches. He hears McCoy's voice.
Mccoy said: Sickbay to lab. Anything new on those bios?
Lab Tech said: They all came out fine, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Good. McCoy out.
Khan sees a display of old medical instruments on the wall, takes a scalpel, and is back in bed when McCoy walks in to check on him. As the good doctor leans over, Khan grabs him by the throat and holds the blade to his neck.
Mccoy said: Well, either choke me or cut my throat. Make up your mind.
Khan said: English. I thought I dreamed hearing it. Where am I?
Mccoy said: You're in (a squeeze makes him lower his voice) You're in bed, holding a knife at your doctor's throat.
Khan said: Answer my question.
Mccoy said: It would be most effective if you would cut the carotid artery, just under the left ear.
Khan releases him.
Khan said: I like a brave man.
Mccoy said: I was simply trying to avoid an argument. (takes the scalpel) You're aboard the United Spaceship Enterprise. Your vessel is in tow.
Khan said: I remember a voice. Did I hear it say I had been sleeping for two centuries?
Mccoy said: That is correct.
Khan said: Where is your Captain? I have many questions.
McCoy goes to the intercom
Kirk said: Bridge.
Mccoy said: I have a patient here with many questions, Captain.
Kirk said: On my way.
A little later, and Khan is sitting up more
Kirk said: James Kirk, commanding the starship Enterprise.
Khan said: I see.
Kirk said: And your name?
Khan said: I have a few questions first. What is your heading?
Kirk said: Our heading is Starbase Twelve, a planet in the Gamma 400 star system. Our command base in this sector. Is that of any use to you?
Khan said: And my people?
Kirk said: Seventy two of your life-support canisters are still functioning.
Khan said: You will revive them.
Kirk said: As soon as we reach Starbase Twelve.
Khan said: I see.
Kirk said: And now
Khan said: Khan is my name.
Kirk said: Khan. Nothing else?
Khan said: Khan.
Kirk said: What was the exact date of your lift off? We know it was sometime in the early 1990s, but
Khan said: I find myself growing fatigued, Doctor. May we continue this questioning at some other time?
Kirk said: The facts I need, Mister Khan, will take very little time. For example, the nature of your expedition.
Mccoy said: Jim. A little later might be better.
Khan said: Captain, I wonder if I could have something to read during my convalescence. I was once an engineer of sorts. I would be most interested in studying the technical manuals on your vessel.
Kirk said: Yes, I understand. You have two hundred years of catching up to do.
Khan said: Precisely.
Kirk said: They're available to any patient on the viewing screen. Doctor McCoy will show you how to tie into the library tapes.
Khan said: Thank you, Captain. You are very co-operative.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: This Khan is not what I expected of a twentieth century man.
Spock said: I note he's making considerable use of our technical library.
Kirk said: Common courtesy, Mister Spock. He'll spend the rest of his days in our time. It's only decent to help him catch up. Would you estimate him to be a product of selective breeding?
Spock said: There is that possibility, Captain. His age would be correct. In 1993, a group of these young supermen did seize power simultaneously in over forty nations.
Kirk said: Well, they were hardly supermen. They were aggressive, arrogant. They began to battle among themselves.
Spock said: Because the scientists overlooked one fact. Superior ability breeds superior ambition.
Kirk said: Interesting, if true. They created a group of Alexanders, Napoleons.
Spock said: I have collected some names and made some counts. By my estimate, there were some eighty or ninety of these young supermen unaccounted for when they were finally defeated.
Kirk said: That fact isn't in the history texts.
Spock said: Would you reveal to war-weary populations that some eighty Napoleons might still be alive?
Scene: Sickbay - medical ward.
Khan is lounging, showing off his chest and calves.
Marla said: Ship's historian, Lieutenant
Khan said: Marla McGivers.
Marla said: Yes.
Khan said: I am told you participated in my rebirth.
Marla said: In a small way.
Khan said: I've been reading up on starships, but they have one luxury not mentioned in the manuals.
Marla said: I don't understand.
Khan said: A beautiful woman. My name is Khan. Please sit and entertain me.
She perches on another bed
Marla said: I'd like some historical information about your ship, its purpose and
Khan said: And why do you wear your hair in such an uncomplimentary fashion?
Marla said: It's comfortable.
Khan said: But it's not attractive. (He takes her to a mirror and loosens a couple of strands at the back.) There. Soft. Natural. Simple.
Marla said: Mister Khan, I'm here on business.
Khan said: You find no pleasure here?
Marla said: My interest is scientific. Men of. That is, the world of the past. I'm sure you understand to actually talk to a man of your century
Khan said: There. Simple, soft. Please remember.
Marla said: Perhaps some other time, when you feel more like talking about the past.
Khan said: I'm glad you came. Please do it again.
Scene: Officer's Mess.
The dining table is laid out, and the senior staff are in dress uniform.
Mccoy said: Very impressive. Are we expecting a fleet admiral for dinner?
Kirk said: Lieutenant McGivers' idea to welcome Khan to our century. Just how strongly is she attracted to him?
Mccoy said: Well, there aren't any regulations against romance, Jim.
Kirk said: My curiosity's official, not personal, Bones.
Mccoy said: Well, he has a magnetism. Almost electric. You felt it. And it could over power McGivers with her preoccupation with the past.
Scene: McGiver's quarters.
A crewwoman shows Khan in.
Khan said: Thank you. I hoped you might guide me to our dinner engagement. (sees a picture on the wall) Very good. Fine technique.
Marla said: It's a gladiator named Flavius. He once
Khan said: And you've rearranged your hair for me. Excellent.
Khan said: All bold men from the past. Richard, Leif Ericson, Napoleon. A hobby of yours, such men?
He uncovers a work in progress - a man in a turban
Khan said: I am honoured. Thank you. But I caution you. Such men dare take what they want.
He kisses her, and she responds.
Scene: Officer's mess.
After dinner, as liqueurs are being served.
Kirk said: Forgive my curiosity, Mister Khan, but my officers are anxious to know more about your extraordinary journey.
Spock said: And how you managed to keep it out of the history books.
Khan said: Adventure, Captain. Adventure. There was little else left on Earth.
Spock said: There was the war to end tyranny. Many considered that a noble effort.
Khan said: Tyranny, sir? Or an attempt to unify humanity?
Spock said: Unify, sir? Like a team of animals under one whip?
Khan said: I know something of those years. Remember, it was a time of great dreams, of great aspiration.
Spock said: Under dozens of petty dictatorships.
Khan said: One man would have ruled eventually. As Rome under Caesar. Think of its accomplishments.
Spock said: Then your sympathies were with
Khan said: You are an excellent tactician, Captain. You let your second in command attack while you sit and watch for weakness.
Kirk said: You have a tendency to express ideas in military terms, Mister Khan. This is a social occasion.
Khan said: It has been said that social occasions are only warfare concealed. Many prefer it more honest, more open.
Kirk said: You fled. Why? Were you afraid?
Khan said: I've never been afraid.
Kirk said: But you left at the very time mankind needed courage.
Khan said: We offered the world order!
Kirk said: We?
Khan said: Excellent. Excellent. But if you will excuse me, gentlemen and ladies, I grow fatigued again. With your permission, Captain, I will return to my quarters.
Kirk stands, and Khan leaves.
Scene: Khan's quarters.
Khan is pacing when Marla enters.
Marla said: I wanted to apologise. They had no right to treat you that way.
Khan said: Quite understandable, since I'm something of a mystery to them.
Marla said: You're no mystery to me. I know exactly who you are.
Khan said: Do you?
Marla said: Leif Ericson, Richard the Lion Heart, Napoleon. I don't know if you're going to like living in our time.
Khan said: Then I'll have to remold it to my liking.
Embraces her
Marla said: Please don't.
Pushes her away.
Khan said: Go. Or stay. But do it because it is what you wish to do. Well?
Marla said: I'll stay a little longer.
Khan said: How many minutes do you graciously offer?
Marla said: I only meant
Khan said: This grows tiresome. You must now ask to stay.
Marla said: I'd like to stay. Please.
He takes her hand, then forces her down onto her knees.
Khan said: Open your heart. Will you open your heart?
Marla said: Yes.
Khan said: I intend to take this ship. Do you agree?
Marla said: Oh, please don't ask me
Khan said: I need your help.
Marla said: You won't harm anyone?
Khan said: Now you question me?
Marla said: No.
Khan said: Will you assist me?
Marla said: Oh, please, Khan, don't ask me
Khan said: Leave me then. Go, I say.
Marla said: No. I promise. I'll do anything you ask.
Scene: Briefing room.
A large picture of their guest in on a screen
Kirk said: Name, Khan, as we know him today. (Spock changes the picture) Name, Khan Noonien Singh.
Spock said: From 1992 through 1996, absolute ruler of more than a quarter of your world. From Asia through the Middle East.
Mccoy said: The last of the tyrants to be overthrown.
Scott said: I must confess, gentlemen. I've always held a sneaking admiration for this one.
Kirk said: He was the best of the tyrants and the most dangerous. They were supermen, in a sense. Stronger, braver, certainly more ambitious, more daring.
Spock said: Gentlemen, this romanticism about a ruthless dictator is
Kirk said: Mister Spock, we humans have a streak of barbarism in us. Appalling, but there, nevertheless.
Scott said: There were no massacres under his rule.
Spock said: And as little freedom.
Mccoy said: No wars until he was attacked.
Spock said: Gentlemen.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, you misunderstand us. We can be against him and admire him all at the same time.
Spock said: Illogical.
Kirk said: Totally. This is the Captain. Put a twenty four hour security on Mister Khan's quarters, effective immediately.
Scene: Khan's quarters.
Khan is seated at a plain table, dressed in a red Enterprise uniform shirt, when Kirk bursts in and sits opposite him.
Khan said: I'm sorry, Captain. I was lost in thought. My door. Locked from outside, a guard posted.
Kirk said: Unusual treatment for Khan Noonien Singh.
Khan said: Excellent. You identified me with your computer system, I imagine.
Kirk said: I'd like those answers now. First, the purpose of your star flight.
Khan said: A new life, a chance to build a world. Other things I doubt you would understand.
Kirk said: Why? Because I'm not a product of controlled genetics?
Khan said: Captain, although your abilities intrigue me, you are quite honestly inferior. Mentally, physically. In fact, I am surprised how little improvement there has been in human evolution. Oh, there has been technical advancement, but, how little man himself has changed. Yes, it appears we will do well in your century, Captain. Do you have any other questions?
Kirk said: Thank you. They've all been answered.
He leaves, and the guard resumes his post. Khan summons his strength, wrenches the locked door open and knocks out his guard with a single blow.
Scene: Transporter room.
Marla is holding a phaser on the transporter chief.
Marla said: Move away.
Khan comes in and incapacitates him with pressure at the base of the skull. She beams him to the Botany Bay.
Scene: SS Botany Bay.
Freshly revived supermen and women are stretching their muscles when Khan greets them.
Khan said: Otto. Joaquin. The trip is over. The battle begins again. Only this time it's not a world we win. It's a universe. Kati.
Scene: Bridge.
Spinelli said: On course, sir. Warp factor two.
Kirk said: Maintain. (he answers the intercom) Bridge.
Security said: Captain, Security here. Khan's escaped.
Kirk said: Sound security alert.
Uhura said: Security alert, Captain. Communication channels are down, Captain.
Kirk heads to the lift, but the doors do not open
Spock said: Turbo elevators inoperative. Jammed, Captain.
Kirk rushes to a panel on the far bulkhead and pushes buttons.
Kirk said: Atmospheric controls cut off.
Spock said: Useless. They're on override in Engineering.
Kirk said: Engineering. Scotty. This is the Bridge.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: Captain!
He gets knocked out
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: What's going on down there?
Scene: Engineering.
Khan said: He's not able to answer you at the moment, Captain.
Scene: Bridge.
Khan said: Your ship is mine. I have shut off the life-support system to your Bridge, and jammed up your exit routes. I am willing to negotiate.
Kirk said: Flood all decks with neural gas.
Spock said: Impossible. Intruder control systems inoperative. Mister Khan was very thorough in his study of our tech manuals.
Kirk said: Contact Starbase Twelve.
Uhura said: All channels are totally jammed, Captain.
Spock said: Brilliant. Every contingency anticipated.
Khan said: Your air should be getting quite thin by now.
Scene: Engineering.
Khan said: Do you surrender the Bridge?
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Negative.
Scene: Engineering.
Khan said: Academic, Captain. Refuse,
Scene: Bridge.
Khan said: And every person on the Bridge will suffocate.
A little later, with everyone else unconscious, Kirk makes his last log entry.
Stardate 3142.8. They have my ship, discarding their own worthless vessel. Only moments of air left on the Bridge now. Commendations recommended for Lieutenant Uhura, Technicians First Class Thule and Harrison, Lieutenant Spinelli and, of course, Mister Spock. I take full responsibility. I take full He passes out
Scene: Briefing room.
The senior staff are awake again, and listening to a speech at gunpoint.
Khan said: Nothing ever changes, except man. Your technical accomplishments? Improve a mechanical device and you may double productivity. But improve man and you gain a thousand fold. I am such a man. Join me. I'll treat you well. I need your training to operate a vessel this complex.
Scott said: Where is Captain Kirk?
Khan said: I see now I made one serious error. You are the Communications Officer? Engage the viewing screen, please.
Uhura doesn't move, so Joaquin drags her to the table, then hits her. As he raises his hand again, Marla intervenes.
Marla said: No!
Khan said: I should have realised that suffocating together on the Bridge would create heroic camaraderie among you. But it is quite a different thing to watch it happening to someone else. Engage the viewing screen. I'm sure you recognise your medical decompression chamber here, Doctor. And the meaning of that indicator. (It is dropping to 10Hg) Your Captain will die. If you join me, Mister Spock, I will save his life. My vessel was useless. I need you and yours to select a colony planet. One with a population willing to be led by us.
Mccoy said: To be conquered by you. A starship would make that most simple, wouldn't it?
Khan said: Each of you in turn will go in there. Die while the others watch.
Marla said: Khan. There's no reason I must watch this, is there?
Khan said: (Shakes his head) But I hoped you would be stronger. (She leaves) If any one of you joins me, anyone! I'll let him live. It's so useless!
Joachim said: We've lost the channel. How do I regain picture?
Khan said: It does not matter. The Captain is dead. Take Mister Spock next.
Scene: Decompression chamber.
There is one young man standing guard by the chamber door.
Marla said: Khan said to watch him very closely. He may decide to co-operate.
As he turns to look in the porthole, she injects him. He passes out and she repressurises the chamber, freeing Kirk.
Marla said: Captain, I saved your life. Now please don't kill him.
The outer Sickbay door opens, Kirk waits and then tackles Spock's guard. Spock neck-pinches him.
Spock said: Surprised to see you, Captain, though pleased.
Kirk said: I'm a little pleased myself. Situation?
Spock said: Khan is holding our staff in the briefing room. His men have control of the ship.
Kirk said: Our only chance is the intruder control circuit. Although he's cut it off at the Bridge.
Spock said: There's a relay junction down the corridor.
Kirk said: Gas all decks but this one.
Scene: Briefing room.
Khan said: Armoury, this is Khan. Report. Rodriguez. Ling. McPherson. Anyone. Report status.
Gas starts coming out of the ventilation grill. Khan flees, Scott hits a guard and gives chase. Everyone else coughs.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: Where's Khan?
Scott said: I don't know. He got out just as the gas
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Spock said: Anesthesia gas in all sections except Engineering. Someone just closed that line.
Scene: Engineering.
Khan is working controls and listening to the intercom messages.
Spock said: Captain, acknowledge. Unable to flood Engineering section. I suspect
Scott said: This is Scott. Captain's headed for the Engineering section. I'll follow in case
Spock said: Negative. We must retake the vessel while the anesthesia lasts. Meet me in the Armoury. I'm blowing it clear first. Spock out.
Kirk dashes into Engineering and straight into Khan, who easily disarms him then crushes the phaser. Then an alarm beeps.
Khan said: If I understood your manuals, that's an overload in progress. Your ship flares up like an exploding sun within minutes.
The two fight. Khan can throw Kirk around with little effort.
Khan said: I have five times your strength. You're no match for me.
But Kirk gets himself a weapon and clubs Khan into unconsciousness before stopping the overload and saving his ship.
Captain's Log. Stardate 3143.3. Control of the Enterprise has been regained. I wish my next decisions were no more difficult. Khan and his people. What a waste to put them in a reorientation centre. And what do I do about McGivers?
Scene: Briefing room.
The senior staff are in dress uniform again.
Uhura said: Record tapes engaged and ready, Captain.
Kirk said: This hearing is now in session. Under the authority vested in me by Starfleet Command, I declare all charges and specifications in this matter have been dropped.
Mccoy said: Jim. Agreed you have the authority
Kirk said: Mister Spock, our heading takes us near the Ceti Alpha star system.
Spock said: Quite correct, Captain. Planet number five there is habitable, although a bit savage, somewhat inhospitable.
Kirk said: But no more than Australia's Botany Bay colony was at the beginning. Those men went on to tame a continent, Mister Khan. Can you tame a world?
Khan said: Have you ever read Milton, Captain?
Kirk said: Yes. I understand. Lieutenant Marla McGivers. Given a choice of court martial or accompanying them there.
Khan said: (gazing into her eyes) It will be difficult. A struggle at first even to stay alive, to find food.
Marla said: I'll go with him, sir.
Khan said: A superior woman. I will take her. And I've gotten something else I wanted. A world to win, an empire to build.
Kirk said: This hearing is closed.
Khan and McGivers are escorted out.
Scott said: It's a shame for a good Scotsman to admit it, but I'm not up on Milton.
Kirk said: The statement Lucifer made when he fell into the pit. 'It is better to rule in hell than serve in heaven.'
Spock said: It would be interesting, Captain, to return to that world in a hundred years and to learn what crop has sprung from the seed you planted today.
Kirk said: Yes, Mister Spock, it would indeed.