The City on the Edge of Forever
Stardate: 3134.0
Original Airdate: 6 Apr, 1967
Scene: Bridge.
Enterprise is at Red Alert as she orbits a muddy looking planet. Every so often the ship shakes.
Kirk said: Stay on top of it, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: We're holding orbit, sir. The helm is sluggish.
Scott said: Control circuits threatening to overload, Captain.
Kirk said: Understood, Engineer. Mister Spock? We can't avoid these areas of turbulence.
Spock said: I believe we'll have them plotted in a few more orbits, Captain.
Sulu's console explodes and he is thrown to the floor, unconscious.
Kirk said: Sickbay. To the Bridge.
Scott said: Switching to manual, Captain. Do we maintain this orbit?
Kirk said: Spock?
Spock said: This is of great scientific importance, Captain. We're actually passing through ripples in time.
Kirk said: Maintain orbit. Open the channel to Starfleet Command. Precautionary measure, Lieutenant. Broadcast to Starfleet Command my past week's log entries, starting with the unusual readings we had on the instruments and how they led us here. Inform Starfleet Command that apparently something or someone down on this planet
McCoy enters
Kirk said: (pointing to Sulu) Bones. Can effect changes in time, causing turbulent waves of space displacement.
Mccoy said: Some heart flutter. Better risk a few drops of cordrazine.
Kirk said: Tricky stuff. Are you sure you want to risk
The hypo is administered and Sulu opens his eyes.
Mccoy said: You were about to make a medical comment, Jim?
Kirk said: Who, me, Doctor?
Scott said: (at the helm) We're guiding around most of the time ripples now.
Kirk said: Mister Spock?
Spock said: All plotted but one, Captain. Coming up on it now. Seems to be fairly heavy displacement.
And they hit it just as McCoy still has the hypo in his hand, and the jolt results in him injecting it into his own stomach.
Kirk said: Bones! Get back to your positions.
Spock said: The hypo, Captain.
Kirk said: It was set for cordrazine.
Spock said: Empty.
Kirk said: Communications, emergency medical team.
Mccoy said: (screams) Killers! Assassins! I won't let you! I'll kill you first! I won't let you! You won't get me! Murderers! Killers!
He dashes into the turbolift.
Kirk said: Security alert.
Captain's log, supplemental entry. Two drops of cordrazine can save a man's life. A hundred times that amount has just accidentally been pumped into Doctor McCoy's body. In a strange, wild frenzy, he has fled the ship's Bridge. All connecting decks have been placed on alert. We have no way of knowing if the madness is permanent or temporary, or in what direction it will drive McCoy.
Scene: Transporter room.
McCoy enters, knocks out the Chief very quickly and scientifically, then beams himself away.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Continue alert, decks four through eleven. The medical department knows as little as we do. In dosages approaching this, there's some record of wild paranoia.
Spock said: Confirmed by the library record tapes, Captain. Subjects failed to recognise acquaintances, became hysterically convinced that they were in mortal danger, and were seeking escape at any cost. Extremely dangerous to himself or to anyone else who might
Galloway said: Bridge, Security. Alert, alert!
Kirk said: Bridge here. Go ahead.
Scene: Transporter room.
Galloway said: Security 054, sir. We just found the transport chief injured.
Scene: Bridge.
Chief said: Captain, Doctor McCoy has beamed himself down to the planet.
Spock said: And the transporter at that time, Captain, was focused on the centre of the time disturbance.
Kirk said: So whatever's down there, McCoy is in the heart of it. Set up a landing party. Let's go get him. Kirk out.
Scene: Planet surface.
The landing party is Kirk, Spock, Scott, Uhura and two security guards. Among remains of fluted columns and fragments of Greek-style buildings is an irregular dough-nut shaped object with lights in it.
Kirk said: These ruins extend to the horizon. Begin recording.
Uhura said: Recording, sir.
Spock said: And of considerable age. On the order of ten thousand centuries old.
Kirk said: Detail, fan out. What is this thing, Mister Spock? It seems to be pulsating with power of some kind. Analysis, please.
Spock said: Unbelievable, Captain.
Kirk said: That's funny.
Spock said: This single object is the source of all the time displacement.
Kirk said: Explain.
Spock said: I can't. For this to do what it does is impossible by any science I understand. It is operating even now. Putting out waves and waves of time displacement, which we picked up millions of miles away.
Uhura said: Landing party to Enterprise. No sign of Doctor McCoy. Search progressing.
And he pops up from behind a rock after she and her security guard have passed by.
Spock said: Incredible power. It can't be a machine as we understand mechanics.
Kirk said: Then what is it?
Guardian said: (The doughnut pulses bright in time with the words) A question. Since before your sun burned hot in space and before your race was born, I have awaited a question.
Kirk said: What are you?
Guardian said: I am the Guardian of Forever.
Kirk said: Are you machine or being?
Guardian said: I am both and neither. I am my own beginning, my own ending.
Spock said: I see no reason for answers to be couched in riddles.
Guardian said: I answer as simply as your level of understanding makes possible.
Spock said: A time portal, Captain. A gateway to other times and dimensions, if I'm correct.
Guardian said: As correct as possible for you. Your science knowledge is obviously primitive.
Spock said: Really.
Kirk said: Annoyed, Spock?
Guardian said: Behold. A gateway to your own past, if you wish.
A camel train passing a pyramid, ancient Rome - images appear inside the doughnut.
Mccoy said: Killers! Killers! I won't let you get me! I'll kill you first! I won't let you get me! Assassins! Murderers! Killers!
Scott and a guard manage to grab McCoy, and Spock neck-pinches him. An army of lancers charge across the doughnut.
Kirk said: Spock! If that is a doorway back through time, could we somehow take Bones back a day in time, then
Spock said: Relive the accident. This time be certain that the hypo accident is avoided. Look at the speed with which the centuries are passing, Captain. To step through on precisely the day we wish
Kirk said: Guardian. Can you change the speed at which yesterday passes?
Guardian said: I was made to offer the past in this manner. I cannot change.
The US cavalry charges.
Kirk said: Strangely compelling, isn't it? To step through there and lose oneself in another world.
Spock said: I am a fool. My tricorder is capable of recording even at this speed. I've missed taping centuries of living history which no man before has ever
But McCoy has woken up, and dashes towards the Guardian.
Scott said: Doctor McCoy!
Kirk said: Bones, no!
McCoy leaps through the doughnut and the pictures stop. He's gone.
Kirk said: Where is he?
Guardian said: He has passed into... what was.
Uhura said: Captain, I've lost contact with the ship. I was talking to them. Suddenly, it went dead. No static, just nothing.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise. Scotty.
Scott said: Nothing wrong with the communicator, sir.
Guardian said: Your vessel, your beginning, all that you knew is gone.
Kirk said: McCoy has somehow changed history.
Scott said: You mean we're stranded down here?
Spock said: With no past, no future.
Uhura said: Captain, I'm frightened.
Kirk said: Earth's not there. At least, not the Earth we know. We're totally alone.
Captain's log, no stardate. For us, time does not exist. McCoy, back somewhere in the past, has effected a change in the course of time. All Earth history has been changed. There is no starship Enterprise. We have only one chance. We have asked the Guardian to show us Earth's history again. Spock and I will go back into time ourselves and attempt to set right what ever it was that McCoy changed.
Spock said: I was recording images at the time McCoy left. A rather barbaric period in your American history. I believe I can approximate just when to jump. Perhaps within a month of the correct time. A week, if we're fortunate.
Kirk said: Make sure we arrive before McCoy got there. It's vital we stop him before he does whatever it was that changed all history. Guardian, if we are successful
Guardian said: Then you will be returned. It will be as though none of you had gone.
Uhura said: Captain, it seems impossible. Even if you were able to find the right date
Scott said: Then even finding McCoy would be a miracle.
Spock said: There is no alternative.
Kirk said: Scotty, when you think you've waited long enough. Each of you will have to try it. Even if you fail, at least you'll be alive in some past world somewhere.
Scott said: Aye.
Spock said: Seconds now, sir. Stand by.
Scott said: Good luck, gentlemen.
Uhura said: Happiness at least, sir.
First World War images.
Spock said: And now.
Scene: Street.
They leap through a wall with a poster for boxing at Madison Square Gardens. Welcome to the Depression.
Kirk said: I've seen old photographs of this period. An economic upheaval had occurred.
Spock said: It was called Depression, circa 1930. Quite barbaric.
Two women give then curious looks, and Spock hides his ears with his hands.
Kirk said: We seem to be costumed a little out of step with the time.
Spock said: I'm afraid I'm going to be difficult to explain in any case, Captain.
Kirk said: Well, Mister Spock, if we can't disguise you, we'll find some way of explaining you.
Spock said: That should prove interesting.
Kirk said: Let's get out of here.
They are nearly run down crossing the street.
Spock said: Fascinating.
Driver said: Look out, will you? Why don't you watch where you're going?
They head into an alley with washing hanging out on the fire escape.
Spock said: Theft, Captain?
Kirk said: Well, we'll steal from the rich and give back to the poor later. I think I'm going to like this century. Simple, easier to manage. We're not going to have any difficulty explaining
Then he sees the policeman.
Policeman said: Well?
Kirk said: You're a police officer. I recognise the traditional accoutrements.
Spock said: You were saying you'll have no trouble explaining it.
Kirk said: My friend is obviously Chinese. I see you've noticed the ears. They're actually easy to explain.
A crowd is gathering.
Spock said: Perhaps the unfortunate accident I had as a child.
Kirk said: The unfortunate accident he had as a child. He caught his head in a mechanical rice picker. But fortunately, there was an American missionary living close by who was actually a skilled plastic surgeon in civilian life.
Policeman said: All right, all right. Drop those bundles and put your hands on that wall there! Come on!
Kirk said: Oh, how careless of your wife to let you go out that way.
Policeman said: What? Where?
Spock said: Oh, yes, it's quite untidy. Here, let me help you.
And a quick neck pinch in front of witnesses, then they grab the clothes and run off. With whistles blowing, they duck down the alley beside the 21st Street Mission and down the stairs to the cellar.
Scene: Cellar.
Kirk said: You were actually enjoying my predicament back there. At times, you seem quite human.
Spock said: Captain, I hardly believe that insults are within your prerogative as my commanding officer.
Kirk said: Sorry.
They get changed into jeans and shirts.
Kirk said: Time we faced the unpleasant facts.
Spock said: First, I believe we have about a week before McCoy arrives, but we can't be certain.
Kirk said: Arrives where? Honolulu, Boise, San Diego? Why not Outer Mongolia, for that matter?
Spock said: There is a theory. There could be some logic to the belief that time is fluid, like a river, with currents, eddies, backwash.
Kirk said: And the same currents that swept McCoy to a certain time and place might sweep us there, too.
Spock said: Unless that is true, Captain, we have no hope. Frustrating. Locked in here is the place and moment of his arrival, even the images of what he did. If only I could tie this tricorder in with the ship's computers for just a few moments.
Kirk said: Couldn't you build some form of computer aid here?
Spock said: In this zinc-plated vacuum-tubed culture?
Kirk said: Yes, well, it would pose an extremely complex problem in logic, Mister Spock. Excuse me. I sometimes expect too much of you.
The lights come on.
Edith said: Who's there?
Spock puts on a woolen hat that was conveniently amongst the clothes Kirk stole. A young woman wearing an apron comes down the stairs.
Kirk said: Excuse us, miss. We didn't mean to trespass. It's cold outside.
Edith said: A lie is a poor way to say hello. It isn't that cold.
Kirk said: No. We were being chased by a policeman.
Edith said: Why?
Kirk said: These clothes. We stole them. We didn't have any money.
Edith said: Well, I could do with some help around here. Doing dishes, sweeping, general cleaning.
Spock said: At what rate of payment? I need radio tubes and so forth. My hobby.
Edith said: Fifteen cents an hour for ten hours a day. What are your names?
Kirk said: Mine is Jim Kirk. His is Spock.
Edith said: I'm Edith Keeler. You can start by cleaning up down here.
Kirk said: Excuse me, Miss. Where are we?
Edith said: You're in the 21st Street Mission.
Kirk said: Do you run this place?
Edith said: Indeed I do, Mister Kirk.
She leaves them.
Kirk said: Radio tubes and so on. I approve of hobbies, Mister Spock.
Scene: Canteen.
Kirk and Spock collect their bowls of soup and pieces of bread, and sit at one of the long tables.
Edith said: Good evening.
She steps up onto a small stage with a piano.
Man said: You'll be sorry.
Kirk said: Why?
Man said: You expect to eat for free or something? You got to listen to Goody Two-shoes.
Edith said: Now, as I'm sure somebody out there has said, it's time to pay for the soup.
Man said: Not that she's a bad-looking broad, but if she really wanted to help out a fella in need
Kirk said: Shut up. Shut up. I want to hear what she has to say.
Spock said: Yes, of course, Captain.
Edith said: Now, let's start by getting one thing straight. I'm not a do-gooder. If you're a bum, if you can't break off of the booze or whatever it is that makes you a bad risk, then get out. Now I don't pretend to tell you how to find happiness and love when every day is just a struggle to survive, but I do insist that you do survive because the days and the years ahead are worth living for. One day soon man is going to be able to harness incredible energies, maybe even the atom. Energies that could ultimately hurl us to other worlds in some sort of spaceship. And the men that reach out into space will be able to find ways to feed the hungry millions of the world and to cure their diseases. They will be able to find a way to give each man hope and a common future, and those are the days worth living for. Our deserts will bloom. (She continues under the dialogue.)
Kirk said: Development of atomic power is years away, and space flight years after that.
Spock said: Speculation. Gifted insight.
Kirk said: I find her most uncommon, Mister Spock.
Edith said: Prepare for tomorrow. Get ready. Don't give up.
Later, when the bowls are being handed in, Edith calls after Kirk.
Edith said: Mister Kirk. You are uncommon workmen. That basement looks like it's been scrubbed and polished.
Kirk said: Then we can report back for other work?
Edith said: Yes. Seven o'clock in the morning. Do you have a flop for the night?
Kirk said: A what?
Edith said: You really are new at this, aren't you? A flop is a place to sleep.
Kirk said: Oh.
Edith said: There's a vacant room at the place where I live for two dollars a week. If you want to I'll take you there.
Kirk said: Thank you.
Edith said: Good.
She goes to get her coat.
Kirk said: We have a flop.
Spock said: We have a what, Captain?
Kirk said: A place to sleep.
Spock said: One might have said so in the first place.
Scene: Room.
It must be some days later, because Spock has already built a 50's horror movie contraption, complete with static electricity running between two vertical wires. Kirk enters with groceries.
Spock said: Captain, I must have some platinum. A small block would be sufficient, five or six pounds. By passing certain circuits through there to be used as a duodynetic field core.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, I've brought you some assorted vegetables, baloney in a hard rolls for myself, and I've spent the other nine tenths of our combined salaries for the last three days on filling this order for you. Mister Spock, this bag doesn't contain platinum, silver or gold, nor is it likely to in the near future.
Spock said: Captain, you're asking me to work with equipment which hardly very far ahead of stone knives and bearskins.
Kirk said: McCoy will be along in a few days, perhaps sooner. There's no guarantee that these currents in time will bring us together. This has to work.
Spock said: Captain. Captain, in three weeks at this rate, possibly a month, I might reach the first mnemonic memory circuits.
There's a knock at the door.
Kirk said: Your hat.
Edith said: If you can leave immediately, I can get you five hours work at twenty two cents an hour. What? What on Earth is that?
Spock said: I am endeavouring, ma'am, to construct a mnemonic memory circuit using stone knives and bearskins.
Scene: Canteen.
Kirk and Spock are sweeping the floor, with the chairs stacked on the tables, and two men repairing clocks.
Spock said: Captain. Tools for finely detailed work.
Later, a combination padlock is being opened by someone with very sensitive ears.
Scene: Cellar.
Spock is stoking the boiler when Edith comes in to confront them.
Edith said: That toolbox was locked with a combination lock and you opened it like a real pro. Why did you do it?
Spock said: I needed the fine tools for my radio work. They'd have been returned in the morning.
Edith said: I'm sorry, I can't
Kirk said: If Mister Spock says that he needs the tools and that they'll be returned tomorrow morning, you can bet your reputation on that, Miss Keeler.
Edith said: On one condition. Walk me home? I still have a few questions I'd like to ask about you two. Oh, and don't give me that questions about little old us? look. You know as well as I do how out of place you two are around here.
Spock said: Interesting. Where would you estimate we belong, Miss Keeler?
Edith said: You? At his side, as if you've always been there and always will. And you? You belong in another place. I don't know where or how. I'll figure it out eventually.
Spock said: I'll finish with the furnace.
Edith said: Captain. Even when he doesn't say it, he does.
Scene: Street.
They are strolling along, hand in hand, as 'Goodnight, Sweetheart' carries in the air from a radio repair shop.
Edith said: Why does Spock call you Captain? Were you in the war together?
Kirk said: We served together.
Edith said: And you don't want to talk about it? Why? Did you do something wrong? Are you afraid of something? Whatever it is, let me help.
Kirk said: Let me help. A hundred years or so from now, I believe, a famous novelist will write a classic using that theme. He'll recommend those three words even over I love you.
Edith said: Centuries from now? Who is he? Where does he come? Where will he come from?
Kirk said: Silly question. Want to hear a silly answer?
Edith said: Yes.
Kirk said: A planet circling that far left star in Orion's belt. See?
Not that you can actually see any stars in the night sky above the Brooklyn Bridge.
Scene: Room.
Using the clock-mender's tools, Spock gets an image on his tricorder screen of a newspaper report. Edith Keeler, social worker from 21st Street Mission was killed today, it says. Kirk enters.
Kirk said: How are the stone knives and bearskins?
Spock said: I may have found our focal point in time.
Kirk said: You may also find you have a connection burning someplace.
Spock said: Yes. I'm overloading those lines. I believe we'll have our answer on this screen.
Kirk said: Good.
Spock said: And, Captain, you may find this a bit distressing.
Kirk said: Let's see what you have.
Spock said: I've slowed down the recording we made from the time vortex.
Kirk said: February 23rd, 1936. Six years from now. (reading below the headline FDR confers with slum area 'angel') The President and Edith Keeler conferred for some time today
Then the whole thing goes up in flames.
Kirk said: How bad?
Spock said: Bad enough.
Kirk said: The President and Edith Keeler.
Spock said: It would seem unlikely, Jim. A few moments ago, I read a 1930 newspaper article.
Kirk said: We know her future. Within six years from now, she'll become very important. Nationally famous.
Spock said: Or Captain, Edith Keeler will die this year. I saw her obituary. Some sort of traffic accident.
Kirk said: You must be mistaken. They both can't be true.
Spock said: Captain, Edith Keeler is the focal point in time we've been looking for, the point that both we and Doctor McCoy have been drawn to. KIRK: She has two possible futures then, and depending on whether she lives or dies, all of history will be changed. And McCoy
Spock said: Is the random element.
Kirk said: In his condition, what does he do? Does he kill her?
Spock said: Or perhaps he prevents her from being killed. We don't know which.
Kirk said: Get this thing fixed. We must find out before McCoy arrives.
Spock said: Captain, suppose we discover that in order to set things straight again, Edith Keeler must die?
Scene: Street.
The man from the canteen steals a milk bottle from a doorstep when McCoy leaps in through Singers Book Store window and starts shouting.
Mccoy said: Assassins! Murderers! Murderers! Assassins! You! What planet is this? (he drops the bottle) No! Don't run! I won't kill you! It's they who do the killing! Don't run! I won't kill you!
Scene: Boarding house.
Jim and Edith are climbing the stairs together.
Edith said: Why? What is so funny about man reaching for the moon?
Kirk said: How do you know?
Edith said: I just know, that's all. I feel it. And more, I think that one day they'll take all the money they spend now on war and death
Kirk said: And make them spend it on life?
Edith said: Yes. You see the same things that I do. We speak the same language.
Kirk said: The very same.
They are outside room 33 when he leans in for the kiss.
Scene: Street.
McCoy catches the down-and-out.
Man said: No!
Mccoy said: I'm glad you got away, too. Why do you think they want to kill us?
Man said: Look, fella, you take a sip too much of that old wood alky, and, and almost anything seems like it
Mccoy said: Where? Where are we? Earth? The constellations seem right, but. Explain! Explain this trick.
Man said: I, I,
Mccoy said: Biped. Small. Good cranial development. No doubt considerable human ancestry. Is that how you're able to fake all of this? Very good. Modern museum perfection. Right down to the cement beams. Very, very good. Oh, I'd give a lot to see the hospital. Probably needles and sutures. All the pain. They used to hand-cut and sew people like garments. Needles and sutures. Oh, the terrible pain!
He passes out on the ground and his colour starts to improve. The man frisks him, finds his phaser and runs off a little way. Then he fiddles with the phaser, and disintegrates himself.
Scene: Room.
Kirk said: How long before we get a full answer?
Spock said: I'll need at least two more days before I dare make another attempt.
Kirk said: McCoy could have been in the city a week now for all we know, and whatever he does that affects her and changes history could happen tonight or tomorrow morning.
Spock said: Captain, our last bit of information was obtained at the expense of thirty hours work in fused and burned circuits.
Kirk said: I must know whether she lives or dies, Spock. I must know what to do.
Scene: Street.
It's morning, apparently. Bums are still sleeping in shop doorways.
Crier said: Extra! Extra! Get your morning paper! Get your paper. Read all about it!
McCoy spots men going into the Mission and follows them.
Scene: Canteen.
Edith is pouring cups of brown liquid.
Mccoy said: Oh, Miss. That coffee, it just smells wonderful.
Edith said: You look terrible! You'd better sit down. Come on.
Mccoy said: I can't. I got to keep moving. I can't let them find me.
Edith said: There's a cot in the back room. They won't find you there. Come on.
(She helps him out just as Spock comes in and starts serving the drinks.
Scene: Room.
Spock said: This is how history went after McCoy changed it. Here, in the late 1930s. A growing pacifist movement whose influence delayed the United States' entry into the Second World War. While peace negotiations dragged on, Germany had time to complete its heavy-water experiments.
Kirk said: Germany. Fascism. Hitler. They won the Second World War.
Spock said: Because all this lets them develop the A-bomb first. There's no mistake, Captain. Let me run it again. Edith Keeler. Founder of the peace movement.
Kirk said: But she was right. Peace was the way.
Spock said: She was right, but at the wrong time. With the A-bomb, and with their V2 rockets to carry them, Germany captured the world.
Kirk said: No.
Spock said: And all this because McCoy came back and somehow kept her from dying in a street accident as she was meant to. We must stop him, Jim.
Kirk said: How did she die? What day?
Spock said: We can estimate general happenings from these images, but I can't trace down precise actions at exact moments, Captain. I'm sorry.
Kirk said: Spock, I believe I'm in love with Edith Keeler.
Spock said: Jim, Edith Keeler must die.
Scene: Mission back room.
McCoy stirs, dislodging the moist towel from his forehead.
Edith said: Hey, now, come on. You're not ready to take on any tigers just yet. Lie down.
Mccoy said: The most common question to ask would be, where am I? I don't think I'll ask it.
Edith said: Why not?
Mccoy said: The only possible answer would conclusively prove that I'm either unconscious or demented. This looks like old Earth around 1920 or 25.
Edith said: Would you care to try for 30?
Mccoy said: I am unconscious, or demented.
Edith said: I have a friend that talks about Earth the same way that you do. Would you like to meet him?
Mccoy said: I'm a surgeon, not a psychiatrist. I am Leonard McCoy, Senior Medical Officer aboard the USS Enterprise.
Edith said: I don't mean to disbelieve you, but that's hardly a Navy uniform.
Mccoy said: It's quite all right. It's quite all right dear, because I don't believe in you, either.
Edith said: Get some rest.
Scene: Boarding house.
Edith has just gone up a flight of stairs.
Kirk said: Edith.
Edith said: Are you following me, sir?
Kirk said: With ulterior motives. Does that please you?
Edith said: I hope it means (she stumbles on the step and Kirk catches her, while Spock watches.) Oh! How stupid! I've been up and down those stairs a thousand times. I could have broken my neck.
Spock goes back into room 21 as she kisses Jim, and re-emerges when Kirk comes down the stairs again.
Spock said: Captain, I did not plan to eavesdrop.
Kirk said: No, of course you didn't.
Spock said: I must point out that when she stumbled, she might have died right there, had you not caught her.
Kirk said: It's not yet time. McCoy isn't here.
Spock said: We're not that sure of our facts. Who's to say when the exact time will come? Save her, do as your heart tells you to do, and millions will die who did not die before.
Scene: Mission back room.
McCoy is out of bed.
Mccoy said: Come in.
Edith said: Well, you look just fine, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Thank you.
Edith said: I thought you might like to see the evening paper.
Mccoy said: No, not particularly. You know, I've convinced myself that this is all in a cordrazine hallucination, but I've decided you're not.
Edith said: That's reassuring.
Mccoy said: But if you're not, what are you?
Edith said: A friend. When you showed up here, you looked like you could use one.
Mccoy said: I don't doubt it. What about this place? Do you run it?
Edith said: I try to.
Mccoy said: Why?
Edith said: It's necessary.
Mccoy said: Well, it was for me, at least. You may have saved my life.
Edith said: Lots of people drink from the wrong bottle sometimes.
Mccoy said: Not as wrong as the bottle I drank from. Allow me to show my gratitude. Perhaps there's something I can do around here to thank you.
Edith said: We can talk about that later. I have to go. My young man is taking me to a Clark Gable movie.
Mccoy said: A who movie?
Edith said: A Clark Gable. Don't you know?
Mccoy said: Well, I know what a movie is, but.
Edith said: That's very strange. You get some rest. I'll see you later.
Scene: Street.
Edith, Kirk and Spock leave the Mission together, then Spock heads off alone. Kirk and Edith dodge traffic to cross the street.
Edith said: If we hurry, maybe we can catch the Clark Gable movie at the Orpheum.
Kirk said: What?
Edith said: You know, Doctor McCoy said the same thing.
Kirk said: McCoy! Leonard McCoy?
Edith said: Yes. He's in the Mission. He's
Kirk said: Stay right here. Spock! Stay right there!
Spock said: What is it?
Kirk said: McCoy! He's in
McCoy comes out and they greet each other enthusiastically. A truck is coming down the street as Edith starts to cross, not looking.
Spock said: No, Jim!
Kirk said: Edith.
McCoy dashes forward but Kirk grabs him and pulls him back onto the pavement just as Edith and the truck meet in in a squeal of brakes.
Mccoy said: You deliberately stopped me, Jim. I could have saved her. Do you know what you just did?
Spock said: He knows, Doctor. He knows.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk and Spock leap back out of the Guardian.
Scott said: What happened, sir? You only left a moment ago.
McCoy returns.
Spock said: We were successful.
Guardian said: Time has resumed its shape. All is as it was before. Many such journeys are possible. Let me be your gateway.
Uhura said: Captain, the Enterprise is up there. They're asking if we want to beam up.
Kirk said: Let's get the hell out of here.