This Side of Paradise
Stardate: 3417.3
Original Airdate: 2 Mar, 1967
Scene: Bridge.
Painter said: Approaching Omicron Ceti Three, sir.
Kirk said: Standard orbit, Mister Painter.
Painter said: Yes, sir.
Uhura said: Captain.
Kirk said: Yes, Lieutenant.
Uhura said: I've been transmitting a contact signal every five minutes. All I get is dead air. Shall I continue?
Kirk said: Maintain transmission pattern until we've established orbit.
Uhura said: Aye, aye, sir.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, there were one hundred and fifty men, women, and children in that colony. What are the chances of survivors?
Spock said: Absolutely none, Captain. Berthold rays are such a recent discovery. We do not yet have full knowledge of their nature. It is known, however, that living animal tissue disintegrates under exposure. Sandoval's group could not have survived after three years.
Kirk said: Are you saying that those people built a future in a place knowing they might not survive?
Spock said: I am saying they knew there was a risk.
Kirk said: And what about us? Can we afford to send people to the planet's surface?
Spock said: The breakdown of tissue does not develop immediately. We can risk a limited exposure.
Painter said: We've established orbit, sir, and I've pinpointed a settlement.
Kirk said: Thank you, Mister Painter. Mister Spock, equip a landing party of five to accompany me to the planet's surface. Include Doctor McCoy and a biologist. I'll want them in ten minutes.
Scene: Farm yard.
The group beam down into a farm, complete with wooden fence and a tarmacadamed paths. There are clap-board buildings and even a stable block.
Kirk said: Another dream that failed. There's nothing sadder. It took these people a year to make the trip from Earth. They came all that way and died.
Elias said: Hardly that, sir. Welcome to Omicron Ceti Three. I'm Elias Sandoval.
Captain's log, stardate 3417.3. We thought our mission to Omicron Ceti Three would be an unhappy one. We had expected to find no survivors of the agricultural colony there. Apparently, our information was incorrect.
Scene: Farm yard.
Elias said: We haven't seen anyone outside our group for four years since we left Earth. We've been expecting someone for some time. Our subspace radio didn't work properly, and I'm afraid we didn't have anyone who could master its intricacies.
Kirk said: Actually, Mister Sandoval, we didn't come here because of your silent radio.
Elias said: It makes little difference, Captain. You're here. We're happy to see you. Come, let me show you our settlement.
Mccoy said: On pure speculation, just an educated guess, I'd say that man is alive.
Spock said: Captain, this planet is being bombarded by Berthold rays, as our reports indicated. At this intensity, we'll be safe for a week if necessary. But
Kirk said: But these people shouldn't be alive.
Sulu said: Is it possible that they're not?
Mccoy said: You shook hands with him, Jim. His flesh was warm. He's alive. There's no doubt about that.
Spock said: There's also no question of the fact that Berthold rays are incontrovertibly deadly. There's no miracle connected with it, Doctor, you know that. No cures, no serums, no antidotes. If a man is exposed long enough, he dies.
Kirk said: Gentlemen, we're debating in a vacuum. Let's go get some answers.
Scene: Farmhouse.
Elias leads the way into a comfortable room with wooden furniture and gingham curtains.
Elias said: There are two other settlements, but we have forty five colonists here.
Kirk said: What was the reason for the dispersal?
Elias said: We felt three groups would have better potential. If disease were to strike one group, the others would be less likely to be affected. You see, Omicron is an ideal agricultural planet. We determined not to suffer the fate of expeditions that went before us.
Leila said: Elias.
Elias said: Leila, come meet our guests. This is Leila Kalomi, our botanist. This is Captain Kirk, Doctor McCoy, Mister Spock.
Leila said: Mister Spock and I have met before. It's been a long time.
Kirk said: Mister Sandoval, we do have a mission here. Examinations, tests.
Elias said: By all means, make them. I think you'll find our settlement an interesting one. Our philosophy is a simple one, that men should return to a less complicated life. We have few mechanical things here. No vehicles, no weapons. We have harmony here. Complete peace.
Kirk said: We'll try not to interfere with your work.
Elias said: Make yourselves at home, gentlemen.
Scene: Outside, by the barn.
Kelowitz said: What exactly are we looking for anyway, sir?
Sulu said: Whatever doesn't look right, whatever that is. When it comes to farms, I wouldn't know what looked right or wrong if it were two feet from me.
You mean like that weird alien plant right next to you?
Kelowitz said: (opening up the barn door) Hey.
Sulu said: What is it?
Kelowitz said: No cows. This barn isn't even built for them, Just for storage.
Sulu said: Come to think of it, we haven't seen any animals. No horses, no pigs, not even a dog. Nothing.
Scene: Farmhouse.
Elias said: You've known the Vulcanian?
Leila said: On Earth, six years ago.
Elias said: Did you love him?
Leila said: If I did, it was important only to myself.
Elias said: How did he feel?
Leila said: Mister Spock's feelings were never expressed to me. It is said he has none to give.
Elias said: Would you like him to stay with us now, to be as one of us?
Leila said: There is no choice, Elias. He will stay.
Scene: Drawing room.
In another part of the farmhouse, McCoy is conducting medical examinations.
Mccoy said: That'll be all. Thank you very much.
The man leaves, Kirk enters.
Kirk said: Anything?
Mccoy said: I've examined nine men so far, varying in ages from twenty three to fifty nine. They're all in perfect condition. Text book responses. Heart, lungs, excellent. Co-ordination, excellent. Reflexes, excellent. If there are many more of them, I could throw away my shingle.
Communicator beeps
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Scene: Pasture.
Spock said: Spock here, Captain. There seems to be a total absence of life on the planet, with the exception of the colonists and various types of flora.
Kirk said: Sulu had the same observation. Any explanations?
Spock said: Not at the moment, sir. I am conducting various tests with the tricorder, but results are inconclusive.
Scene: Drawing room.
Kirk said: Very well. Continue investigations. Kirk out.
Mccoy said: No animals. That's peculiar.
Kirk said: Yes, especially in view of the fact that the records for this expedition indicate that they did have some for breeding and food purposes. Apparently, none of them survived.
Mccoy said: I'd like to see the medical records on the expedition.
Kirk said: Yes, I thought you might.
Hands over a computer disc
Elias said: Captain, I've been looking for you. You haven't seen our fields and crops. I'd like to show you and the Doctor what we've accomplished here.
Mccoy said: I'm afraid I'll have to bow out. I have to continue with these medical examinations. However, if I find everyone else's health to be as perfect as yours, I
Kirk said: He promised to throw away his shingle.
Elias said: You'll find no weaklings here. Captain.
Scene: Field.
Elias said: This is the reason, Captain. This soil will grow anything we plant in it. It's a perfect world. We have a moderate climate, moderate rains all year round. It gives us all we need. It is perfect.
Leslie said: Pardon me, Captain. Biology report ready, sir.
Elias said: I have work to attend to myself, Captain.
He leaves them.
Kirk said: Go ahead, Lieutenant.
Leslie said: I heard Sandoval saying they could grow anything here. That's true, sir. They've got a variety of crops in. Grains, potatoes, beans.
Kirk said: Make your point.
Leslie said: Well, sir, for an agricultural colony, they have actually very little acreage planted. There's enough to sustain the colony, but very little more.
Kirk said: It's like a jigsaw puzzle all one colour. No key to where the pieces fit in. Why?
Communicator beeps
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Mccoy said: This is McCoy, Jim. I think you'd better get back here.
Kirk said: Trouble?
Mccoy said: No, but I'd like you to see this for yourself.
Kirk said: On my way.
Scene: Farmhouse.
Mccoy said: Sandoval's medical record, four years ago when the expedition left Earth. He registered scar tissue on his lungs from lobar pneumonia suffered when he was a child. No major operations, but there was an appendectomy. Received all required inoculations, et cetera.
Kirk said: What's so strange about that?
Mccoy said: Nothing, but I examined that man no more than two hours ago. You know what his readings were? Perfect, perfect, and perfect. Just like everyone else I've examined here.
Kirk said: Instrument malfunction?
Mccoy said: No. I thought of that and tested it on myself. It accurately recorded my lack of tonsils and those two broken ribs I had once. It did not record the scar tissue on Sandoval's lungs, but it did record a healthy appendix where one was supposedly removed.
Scene: Field.
Spock is scanning amongst the rows of dry-looking somethings.
Spock said: Nothing. Not even insects. Yet your plants grow, and you've survived exposure to Berthold rays.
Leila said: That can be explained.
Spock said: Please do.
Leila said: Later.
Spock said: I have never understood the female capacity to avoid a direct answer to any question.
Leila said: And I never understood you. Until now. There was always a place in here where no one could come. There was only the face you allow people to see. Only one side you'd allow them to know.
Spock said: I would like to know how your people have managed to survive here.
Leila said: I missed you.
Spock said: Logically, you should all be dead.
Leila said: If I tell you how we survived, will you try to understand how we feel about our life here? About each other?
Spock said: Emotions are alien to me. I'm a scientist.
Leila said: Someone else might believe that. Your shipmates, your Captain, but not me. Come.
Scene: Drawing Room.
Kirk said: Mister Sandoval, within the hour I've received orders from Starfleet Command to evacuate all personnel from this colony. Naturally, you'll inform your people to begin preparations. We will have accommodations for you aboard the Enterprise.
Elias said: No.
Kirk said: It's not an arbitrary decision on my part. I have my orders.
Elias said: Captain, it's entirely unnecessary. We're in no danger here.
Mccoy said: We've explained the Berthold rays to you and their effect. Can't you understand?
Elias said: Doctor, how can I make you understand? Your own instruments have shown that we're all in perfect health. We've had no deaths here.
Kirk said: What about your animals?
Elias said: We're vegetarians.
Kirk said: That doesn't answer my question, sir. Why did all your animals die?
Elias said: Captain, you stress very unimportant matters. We will not leave.
Scene: Pasture.
The grass is brown and dry, but the pink flowers are growing.
Leila said: It's not much further.
Spock said: You've not yet explained the nature of this thing.
Leila said: Its basic properties and elements are not important. What is important is it gives life, peace, love.
Spock said: What you're describing was once known in the vernacular as a happiness pill. And you, as a scientist, should know that that's not possible.
Leila said: Come. I was one of the first to find them. The spores.
Spock said: Spores?
One of the pink flowers shoots things at him. Spock clutches his head and falls to the ground in pain.
Spock said: No.
Leila said: It shouldn't hurt.
Spock said: No, I can't. Please, don't!
Leila said: Not like this. It didn't hurt us.
Spock said: I am not like you.
Suddenly the pain is gone.
Leila said: Now. Now, you belong to all of us and we to you. There's no need to hide your inner face any longer. We understand.
Spock said: I love you. I can love you.
They kiss.
Captain's log, supplemental. We have been ordered by Starfleet Command to evacuate the colony on Omicron Three. However, the colony leader, Elias Sandoval, has refused all co-operation and will not listen to any arguments.
Scene: Farmyard.
Kirk said: Sandoval.
Elias said: Captain, your arguments are very valid, but they do not apply to us.
Kirk said: You're being unreasonable.
Elias said: Well, nevertheless. Excuse me.
Kirk said: Excuse me. My orders are to remove all the colonists. That's exactly what I intend to do, with or without your help.
ELIAS; Without, I should think.
Mccoy said: Would you like to use a butterfly net on him, Captain?
Kirk said: No, I think we'll use a
Sulu said: Captain, we've checked out everything. It all seems normal, except for the absence of any animals.
Kirk said: We have orders to evacuate all colonists to Starbase Twenty Seven.
I want landing parties to co-ordinate the colonists and prepare them for transport up to the ship. We'll need extra accommodations aboard. Where's Mister Spock and Mister DeSalle?
Sulu said: We haven't seen them since we began our check.
Mccoy said: DeSalle said he was going to examine some native plants he found. Did Spock call in at all?
Kirk said: No, he didn't. (gets out communicator) Spock? See to the landing parties, would you, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Spock?
Scene: Pasture.
Spock's communicator is beeping to itself while he is lying in Leila's lap, looking at the clouds. He has changed out of his uniform into an overall.
Spock said: That one looks like a dragon. You see the tail and the dorsal spines?
Leila said: I've never seen a dragon.
Spock said: I have. On Berengaria Seven. But I've never stopped to look at clouds before. Or rainbows. You know, I can tell you exactly why one appears in the sky, but considering its beauty has always been out of the question.
Leila said: Not here.
She picks up the communicator and it opens.
Kirk said: Spock!
Spock said: Yes, what did you want?
Scene: Farmyard.
Kirk said: Spock, is that you?
Scene: Pasture.
Spock said: Yes, Captain. What did you want?
Kirk said: Where are you?
Spock said: I don't believe I want to tell you.
Scene: Farmyard.
Kirk said: Spock, I don't know what you think you're doing, but this is an order. Report back to me at the settlement in ten minutes. We're evacuating all colonists to Starbase Twenty Seven.
Scene: Pasture.
Spock said: No, I don't think so.
Scene: Farmyard.
Kirk said: You don't think so, what?
Scene: Pasture.
Spock said: I don't think so, sir.
Scene: Farmyard.
Kirk said: Spock, report to me immediately.
Scene: Pasture.
But the communicator drops to the ground during another kiss
Kirk said: Spock? Acknowledge.
Scene: Farmyard.
Kirk said: Spock. The frequency is open, but he doesn't answer.
Mccoy said: That didn't sound at all like Spock, Jim.
Kirk said: No. I thought you said you might like him if he mellowed a little.
Mccoy said: I didn't say that.
Kirk said: You said that.
Mccoy said: Not exactly. He might be in trouble.
Kirk said: Yes, take over the landing party detail and start getting those colonists aboard.
Mccoy said: How will you find Spock?
Kirk said: The frequency is open. It'll act as a homing device. Contact DeSalle. Have him meet you here. Make sure the landing party work in teams of two. I don't want anybody left alone down here.
Scene: Pasture.
They find the communicator, and hear laughter. Spock is hanging upside down from a branch of a nearby tree.
Kirk said: Spock. (clears throat) Mister Spock.
Scene: Beam-down point.
Items are being collected to be taken up to the ship. DeSalle has brought some of the pink plants.
Mccoy said: What are you doing with those things, DeSalle?
Desalle said: I want you to take a close look at these, Doc. They're very interesting.
Scene: Pasture.
Kirk said: Mister Spock. Are you out of your mind? You were told to report to me at once.
Spock said: I didn't want to, Jim.
Kirk said: You? Yes, I can see that. Miss Kalomi, you'll have to come back to the settlement and prepare to transport up to the ship.
Spock said: There'll be no evacuation, Jim, but perhaps we should go back and get you straightened out.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu, Mister Spock is under arrest, and he's in your custody until we get back to the Enterprise.
Spock said: Very well. Come with me.
He takes Leila's hand and leads the group to a clump of the plants, where they all get sprayed with spores.
Kirk said: What's?
Spock said: Mister Sulu understands, don't you, Mister Sulu?
Sulu said: Yes, I see now. Of course we can't remove the colony. It'd be wrong.
Kirk said: I don't know what these plants are or how they work, but you're all going back to the settlement with me, and those colonists are going aboard the ship.
Kirk leaves them.
Spock said: I can see the Captain is going to be difficult.
Scene: Another pasture.
No equipment or colonists now, just plants going up to the ship. MCCOY: with an extreme southern drawl Ready to beam up. Hiya, Jimmy boy! Hey, I've taken care of everything. All y'all gotta do is relax. Doctor's orders.
Kirk said: How many of those did you beam up?
Mccoy said: Oh, must be nigh onto a hundred by now.
Chief said: Hey, Doc, I'm ready to energise. Everything okay with those plants?
Kirk said: This is the Captain. Beam me up.
Chief said: Well, sure, if you want.
Kirk said: I most certainly do. Energise.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Lieutenant, put me through to Admiral Komack at Starfleet.
Uhura said: Oh, I'm sorry, Captain. I can't do that.
Kirk said: What do you mean, you can't do that. Follow standard procedure. That's an order.
Uhura said: Oh, I know it is, Captain, but you see, all communications are out.
Kirk said: Out?
Uhura said: I short-circuited them, except ship to surface. We'll need that for a while. It's really for the best, Captain.
She leaves the Bridge. Kirk finds a plant and throws it angrily across the helm console before storming out himself.
Scene: Corridor.
There's a long queue of crewmembers lounging against the wall outside the transporter room.
Kirk said: Get back to your stations. Get back to your stations.
Crewman said: I'm sorry, sir. We're all transporting down to join the colony.
Kirk said: I said get back to your station.
Crewman said: No, sir.
Kirk said: This is mutiny, mister.
Crewman said: Yes, sir. It is.
Captain's log, stardate 3417.5. The pod plants have spread spores throughout the ship, carried by the ventilation system. Under their influence, my crew is deserting to join the Omicron colony, and I can't stop them. I don't know why I have not been infected, nor can I get Doctor McCoy to explain the physical-psychological aspects of the infection.
Scene: Pasture.
Mccoy said: I'm not interested in any physical-psychological aspects, Jim boy. We all perfectly healthy down here.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: I've heard that word a lot lately. Perfect. Everything's perfect.
Mccoy said: Yeah. That's right. That's just what it is.
Kirk said: I'll bet you've even grown your tonsils back.
Scene: Pasture.
Mccoy said: Sho'nuf. Hey, Jim boy, y'all ever have a real cold Georgia-style mint julep, huh?
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Look, Bones, I need your help. Can you run tests, blood samples, anything at all to give us a lead on what these things are, how to counteract them?
Scene: Pasture.
Mccoy said: Who wants to counteract paradise, Jim boy?
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: McCoy out.
Kirk said: Bones. Bones.
Scene: Farmhouse.
Spock is pouring tea.
Spock said: Almost the entire ship's complement has beamed down.
Elias said: I'm very pleased. The entire landing operation is proceeding quite well.
Kirk enters
Kirk said: Where's McCoy?
Spock said: He went off to create something called a mint julep. That's a drink, Jim.
Elias said: Captain, why don't you join us?
Kirk said: In your own private paradise.
Elias said: The spores have made it that.
Kirk said: Where did they originate?
Spock said: It's impossible to say. They drifted through space until they finally landed here. You see, they actually thrive on Berthold rays. The plants act as a repository for thousands of microscopic spores until they find a human body to inhabit.
Elias said: In return, they give you complete health and peace of mind.
Kirk said: That's paradise?
Elias said: We have no need or want, Captain.
Spock said: It's a true Eden, Jim. There's belonging and love.
Kirk said: No wants. No needs. We weren't meant for that. None of us. Man stagnates if he has no ambition, no desire to be more than he is.
Elias said: We have what we need.
Kirk said: Except a challenge.
Spock said: You don't understand, Jim, but you'll come around sooner or later. Join us. Please.
Kirk said: I'm going back to the ship.
Scene: Bridge.
All the panels are lit, the lights are on, but nobody is home except one.
Kirk said: Engineering? Scotty? Biochemistry lab? Security? Is there anyone on board? This is the Captain.
He sits in his chair.
Kirk said: Captain's log, stardate 3417.7. Except for myself, all crew personnel have transported to the surface of the planet. Mutinied. Lieutenant Uhura has effectively sabotaged the communications station. I can only contact the surface of the planet. The ship can be maintained in orbit for several months, but even with automatic controls, I cannot pilot her alone. In effect, I am marooned here. I'm beginning to realise just how big this ship really is, how quiet. I don't know how to get my crew back, how to counteract the effect of the spores. I don't know what I can offer against paradise.
The plant that he had thrown earlier, now sprays him with spores.
Kirk said: Enterprise to Mister Spock.
Scene: Pasture.
Spock said: Yes, Jim. What is it now?
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: I've joined you. I understand now.
Scene: Field.
Spock said: Wonderful, Jim. When will you beam down?
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: There are some things in my quarters I want to pack.
Scene: Field.
Spock said: Good. Leila and I will meet you at the beam down point.
Kirk said: Kirk out.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
He packs a suitcase with a smile on his face, then goes to the safe and gets out his medals. He loses the smile.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk puts his suitcase on the transporter pad and goes over to the controls.
Kirk said: No. No! I can't leave! (he's very relieved) Emotions. Violent emotions. Needs. Anger. Captain's log, supplemental. I think I've discovered the answer, but to carry out my plan entails considerable risk. Mister Spock is much stronger than the ordinary human being. Aroused, his great physical strength could kill. But it's a risk I'll have to take.
Scene: Field.
Kirk said: Enterprise to Mister Spock.
Spock said: Spock here.
Kirk said: It's Jim.
Spock said: What's keeping you, Jim? We've been waiting.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: I've been packing some things, and I realise there's some equipment here that we should have down at the settlement.
Scene: Field.
Kirk said: You know we can't come back on board once the last of us has left.
Spock said: Do you want me to beam up a party?
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: No, I think you and I can handle it. Why don't you beam up now?
Scene: Field.
Spock said: Just a moment. It won't take long. Do you mind?
Leila said: I'll wait.
Spock said: Ready to beam up, Jim.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: (with a large metal bar in his hand) Energising.
Spock materialises.
Kirk said: All right, you mutinous, disloyal, computerised, half-breed, we'll see about you deserting my ship.
Spock said: The term half-breed is somewhat applicable, but computerised is inaccurate. A machine can be computerised, not a man.
Kirk said: What makes you think you're a man? You're an overgrown jackrabbit, an elf with a hyperactive thyroid.
Spock said: Jim, I don't understand.
Kirk said: Of course you don't understand. You don't have the brains to understand. All you have is printed circuits.
Spock said: Captain, if you'll excuse me.
Kirk said: What can you expect from a simpering, devil-eared freak whose father was a computer and his mother an encyclopedia?
Spock said: My mother was a teacher. My father an ambassador.
Kirk said: Your father was a computer, like his son. An ambassador from a planet of traitors. A Vulcan never lived who had an ounce of integrity.
Spock said: Captain, please don't
Kirk said: You're a traitor from a race of traitors. Disloyal to the core, rotten like the rest of your subhuman race, and you've got the gall to make love to that girl.
Spock said: That's enough.
Kirk said: Does she know what she's getting, Spock? A carcass full of memory banks who should be squatting in a mushroom, instead of passing himself off as a man? You belong in a circus, Spock, not a starship. Right next to the dog-faced boy.
Spock bends the metal bar with one blow, and throws Kirk around the transporter room with ease. Fortunately, Kirk is able to dodge the blows that damage the walls and equipment until finally...
Kirk said: Had enough? I didn't realise what it took to get under that thick hide of yours. Anyhow, I don't know what you're so mad about. It isn't every first officer who gets to belt his Captain several times.
Spock said: You did that to me deliberately.
Kirk said: Believe me, Mister Spock, it was painful in more ways than one.
Spock said: The spores. They're gone. I don't belong anymore.
Kirk said: You said they were benevolent and peaceful. Violent emotions overwhelm them, destroy them. I had to make you angry enough to shake off their influence. That's the answer, Mister Spock.
Spock said: That may be correct, Captain, but trying to initiate a brawl with over five hundred crewmen and colonists is hardly logical.
Kirk said: I had something else in mind. Can you put together a subsonic transmitter. Something we can hook into the communications station and broadcast over the communicator?
Spock said: It can be done.
Kirk said: Good. Let's get to work.
Spock said: Captain. Striking a fellow officer is a court martial offence.
Kirk said: Well, if we're both in the Brig, who's going to build the subsonic transmitter?
Spock said: That is quite logical, Captain.
Scene: Field.
Mccoy said: Well now, it's a little early to be counting stars, Miss Leila.
Leila said: I'm waiting for Mister Spock and the Captain to transport down. They had some equipment to be moved. But it's been so long. I wish he'd come back.
Mccoy said: Well, now, I think I can fix that for you. Enterprise?
Scene: Bridge.
Spock is back in uniform and under the console when it beeps.
Spock said: Enterprise. Spock here.
Scene: Field.
Leila said: This is Leila. I borrowed the doctor's communicator. I was worried something might have happened to you.
Scene: Bridge.
Leila said: You are all right, aren't you?
Spock said: Yes. Yes. I'm quite well.
Scene: Field.
Leila said: Can I come aboard? I've never seen a starship before
Scene: Bridge.
Leila said: and I want to talk to you.
Spock said: Are you still at the beam down point, and is the doctor there?
Scene: Field.
Leila said: Yes to both questions.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Give your communicator back to Doctor McCoy. You won't need it to beam up. It'll take a few moments. Just wait there. Out.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, Miss Kalomi is strictly your concern, but should you talk to her while she's still under the influence of the spores?
Spock said: I'll be back shortly, Captain.
Scene: Transporter room.
Once she's materialised she rushes to put her arms around him, but he doesn't respond.
Leila said: You're no longer with us, are you? I felt something was wrong.
Spock said: It was necessary.
Leila said: Come back to the planet with me. You can belong again. Come back with me, please.
Spock said: I can't.
Leila said: I love you. I said that six years ago, and I can't seem to stop repeating myself. On Earth, you couldn't give anything of yourself. You couldn't even put your arms around me. We couldn't have anything together there. We couldn't have anything together anyplace else. We're happy here. (crying) I can't lose you now, Mister Spock. I can't.
Spock said: I have a responsibility to this ship, to that man on the Bridge. I am what I am, Leila, and if there are self-made purgatories, then we all have to live in them. Mine can be no worse than someone else's.
Leila said: I have lost you, haven't I? And not only you, I've lost all of it. The spores. I've lost them, too.
Kirk said: The Captain discovered that strong emotions and needs destroy the spore influence.
Leila said: And this is for my good? Do you mind if I say I still love you? You never told me if you had another name, Mister Spock.
Spock said: (wiping away her tears) You couldn't pronounce it.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: They'll not hear this, of course. It'll be more a sensation of feeling it.
Kirk said: As though somebody had put itching powder on their skin.
Spock said: Precisely. It should begin to work on their nerves in a few minutes.
Sulu said: Sorry, DeSalle.
Desalle said: What do you think you're doing?
Sulu said: I said I was sorry.
Desalle said: More like you're clumsy.
Sulu said: If you hadn't gotten in my way
They fight with their spades.
Elsewhere around the settlement, fights are breaking out.
Kelowitz said: Come on. Break it up. Break it up.
Scene: Pasture.
McCoy is resting under a tree, with a tall glass of mint julep in his hand.
Elias said: Well, Doctor, I've been thinking about what sort of work I could assign you to.
Mccoy said: What do you mean, what sort of work? I'm a doctor.
Elias said: Not any more, of course. We don't need you. Not as a doctor.
Mccoy said: Oh, no? Would you like to see how fast I can put you in a hospital?
Elias said: I am the leader of this colony. I'll assign you whatever work I think suitable.
Mccoy said: Just a minute. You'd better make me a mechanic. Then I can treat little tin gods like you. (He punches Elias) Sorry, Sandoval. I don't know what made me do that.
Elias said: We've done nothing here. No accomplishments, no progress. Three years wasted. We wanted to make this planet a garden.
Mccoy said: You can't stay here. You can't survive without the spores. After you've cleared at the Starbase, you could be relocated. It depends upon what you want.
Elias said: I think I'd, I think we'd like to get some work done. The work we started out to do.
Mccoy said: Enterprise.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Enterprise. Spock here.
Scene: Pasture.
Mccoy said: This is McCoy. Sandoval would like to talk to the Captain.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Just a moment. They're all beginning to call in, Captain. Rather contritely, I should say. Sandoval wishes to speak to you.
Kirk said: Put him on the speaker. Kirk here.
Scene: Pasture.
Elias said: Oh, Captain, as I understood it, you were to transport us to Starbase Twenty Seven. We'll give you every co-operation.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Start making preparations, Mister Sandoval. We'll begin transporting your people aboard as soon as more of our crew checks in.
Scene: Bridge.
Later, when everyone is back on duty.
Mccoy said: Well, Jim, I've just examined the last of the colonists, and they're all in absolutely perfect, perfect health. A fringe benefit left over by the spores.
Kirk said: Good.
Mccoy said: Well, that's the second time man's been thrown out of paradise.
Kirk said: No, no, Bones. This time we walked out on our own. Maybe we weren't meant for paradise. Maybe we were meant to fight our way through. Struggle, claw our way up, scratch for every inch of the way. Maybe we can't stroll to the music of the lute. We must march to the sound of drums.
Spock said: Poetry, Captain. Non-regulation.
Kirk said: We haven't heard much from you about Omicron Ceti Three, Mister Spock.
Spock said: I have little to say about it, Captain, except that for the first time in my life I was happy.