A Taste of Armageddon
Stardate: 3192.1
Original Airdate: 23 Feb, 1967
Captain's log, stardate 3192.1. The Enterprise is en route to star cluster NGC 321. Objective, to open diplomatic relations with the civilisations known to be there. We have sent a message to Eminiar Seven, principal planet of the star cluster, informing them of our friendly intentions. We are awaiting an answer.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Nothing yet, Lieutenant?
Uhura said: Nothing, Captain. Hailing frequencies are open.
Ambassador Fox enters the Bridge from the turbolift.
Fox said: Have you received an answer to your message yet, Captain?
Kirk said: Nothing yet, Ambassador. We're awaiting a reply. Today's the first time we've had any evidence they've picked up our signal.
Uhura said: Captain, message coming in from Eminiar Seven. Sir, it's code seven-ten.
Kirk said: Are you sure?
Uhura said: Positive. It repeats over and over.
Fox said: Is that supposed to mean something?
Kirk said: Code seven-ten means under no circumstances are we to approach that planet. No circumstances what so ever.
Fox said: You will disregard that signal, Captain.
Kirk said: Mister Fox, it is their planet.
Fox said: Captain, in the past twenty years, thousands of lives have been lost in this quadrant. Lives that could have been saved if the Federation had a treaty port here. We mean to have that port and I'm here to get it.
Kirk said: By disregarding code seven-ten, you might well involve us in an interplanetary war.
Fox said: I'm quite prepared to take that risk.
Kirk said: You are. I'm thinking about this ship, my crew.
Fox said: I have my orders, Captain, and now you have yours. You will proceed on course. Achieve orbit status and just leave the rest to me. You're well aware that my mission gives me the power of command. I now exercise it. You will proceed on course. That's a direct order.
He leaves.
Spock said: In view of code seven-ten, Captain, may I suggest
Kirk said: Yes, Mister Spock. This is the Captain. Condition Yellow Alert. Phaser crews stand by. Deflector shields up. We're going in. Peacefully, I hope. But peacefully or not, we're going in.
Captain's log, stardate 3192.5. Now in standard orbit around planet Eminiar Seven. My orders are clear. We must establish diplomatic relations at all cost. Preparing to beam down to planet surface.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: We know very little about them. Their civilisation is advanced. They've had space flight for several centuries, but they've never ventured beyond their own solar system. When first contacted more than fifty years ago, Eminiar Seven was at war with its nearest neighbour.
Kirk said: Anything else?
Spock said: The Earth expedition making the report failed to return from its mission. The USS Valiant. Listed as missing in space.
Fox said: Kirk, what's this about you going down alone?
Kirk said: Not alone. I'm taking some security people with me.
Fox said: It is my prerogative.
Kirk said: I can't risk beaming you down there until I know what kind of reception you're going to receive. Your safety is my responsibility. Those are my orders, sir. Mister Spock.
Spock said: Transporter room standing by, Captain.
Kirk said: What co-ordinates?
Spock said: We've selected a site which from the traffic seems to be near an official establishment.
Kirk said: Final sensor readings?
Spock said: No hostility directed toward us. No apparent notice taken of us at all, which seems strange. They did scan us when we assumed orbit. Obviously, they know we're here.
Kirk said: Ship's defences?
Spock said: Screens down, but all defensive details on general alert status, Captain.
Kirk said: Good. Landing party will pick up phaser number one's from the arsenal. Keep them inconspicuous. Mister Scott.
Scott said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: The ship is yours. Take care of her until I come back.
Scott said: Aye, aye, sir. And have a bonny trip.
Kirk said: We'll do our best. Let's go.
Scene: Eminiar Seven.
A young woman in black tights and a skillfully draped scarf is accompanied by two guards. She uses a scanning device.
Mea said: They will materialise there. Remember your instructions; They are to be treated correctly, nothing more.
Kirk, Spock, a yeoman and two guards materialise next to a sculpture
Kirk said: I'm Captain James T. Kirk of the starship Enterprise, representing the United Federation of Planets.
Mea said: I know. I'm Mea 3. I congratulate you on your instrumentation. You've come directly to the Division of Control. If you'll follow me, please.
Scene: Corridor.
Mea said: Captain, I wish
Kirk said: Yes?
Mea said: You were warned not to come here.
Kirk said: I had orders to come here. Why did your people tell us to stay away?
Mea said: It was for your own safety, Captain.
Kirk said: I see no danger here.
Mea said: The danger exists. Nevertheless, you are here. It would be morally incorrect to do less than extend our hospitality. Anan 7 and members of the High Council await you. If you will come this way, please.
Scene: Council Room.
Five stern looking men sit along a table facing the door.
Kirk said: I'm Captain Kirk. This is my first officer, Mister Spock, Lieutenants Galloway, Osborne, Yeoman Tamula.
Anan said: Welcome to Eminiar Seven. Well, Captain, what can we do for you?
Kirk said: My mission is to establish diplomatic relations between your people and mine.
Anan said: That is impossible.
Kirk said: Would you mind telling me why?
Anan said: Because of the war.
Kirk said: You're still at war?
Anan said: We have been at war for five hundred years.
Kirk said: You conceal it very well. Mister Spock?
Spock said: Sir, we have completely scanned your planet. We find it highly advanced, prosperous in a material sense, comfortable for your people, and peaceful in the extreme. Yet you say you are at war. There is no evidence of this.
Anan said: Casualties among our civilian population total from one to three million dead each year from direct enemy attack. That is one reason, Captain, why we told you to stay away. As long as your ship is orbiting our planet, it is in severe danger.
Spock said: With whom are you at war?
Anan said: The third planet in our system, called Vendikar. Originally settled by our people and now a ruthless enemy. Highly advanced technologically.
An alarm sounds.
Anan said: Please excuse me. Vendikar is attacking. Mea, care for our guests.
The Council adjourn into an adjacent room filled with computer equipment.
Spock said: Strange.
Kirk said: To say the least.
Mea said: It will not last long.
Kirk said: Don't you take shelter?
Mea said: There is no shelter, Captain.
Spock said: Are these attacks frequent?
Mea said: Oh yes, and we will retaliate immediately.
She sees an area flare on a map
Mea said: Oh!
Kirk said: What is it?
Mea said: A hit right here in the city.
Kirk said: Do you hear any explosions, Mister Spock?
Spock said: None, Captain. Yeoman Tamula.
Tamula said: Sir?
Spock said: Tricorder readings. Radiation. Disturbances of any kind.
She scans the area
Tamula said: Working, sir. No evidence.
Kirk said: Mea, if this is an attack, may I ask what weapons the enemy is using?
Mea said: Fusion bombs, materialised by the enemy over their targets.
Kirk said: Kirk to Bridge. Scotty?
Scott said: Scott here, Captain.
Kirk said: Scanners operative on the planet's surface?
Scott said: Of course, sir. As per orders.
Kirk said: Anything unusual?
Scott said: Nothing, sir. All quiet.
Kirk said: Thank you. Kirk out.
Scene: War Room.
Sar said: Look, Anan. (another flare on another screen)
Anan said: Yes, I see it. They were warned.
Sar said: Just as it happened fifty years ago.
Anan said: Alert a security detachment. They may be needed.
Scene: Council Room.
Anan rejoins the group
Anan said: It's a vicious attack, extremely destructive. Fortunately, our defences are firming, but our casualties are high. Very high.
Kirk said: Sir, I have been in contact with my ship, which has had this entire planet under surveillance. All during this so-called attack of yours, we have been monitoring you. There's been no attack, no explosions, no radiations, no disturbances whatsoever. If this is some sort of game you're playing
Anan said: This is no game, Captain. Half a million people have just been killed. Activate the attack units, Sar.
Sar said: Yes, Councilman.
Anan said: Launch immediate counter attack.
Spock said: Computers, Captain. They fight their war with computers. Totally.
Anan said: Yes, of course.
Kirk said: Computer don't kill a half million people.
Anan said: Deaths have been registered. Of course they have twenty four hours to report.
Kirk said: To report?
Anan said: To our disintegration machines. You must understand, Captain, we have been at war for five hundred years. Under ordinary conditions, no civilisation could withstand that. But we have reached a solution.
Spock said: Then the attack by Vendikar was theoretical.
Anan said: Oh, no, quite real. An attack is mathematically launched. I lost my wife in the last attack. Our civilisation lives. The people die, but our culture goes on.
Kirk said: You mean to tell me your people just walk into a disintegration machine when they're told to?
Anan said: We have a high consciousness of duty, Captain.
Spock said: There is a certain scientific logic about it.
Anan said: I'm glad you approve.
Spock said: I do not approve. I understand.
Anan said: Good. Then you will recall I warned you not to come here. You chose to ignore my warning. I'm sorry, but it's happened.
Kirk said: What has happened?
Anan said: Once your ship was in orbit about our planet, it became a legitimate target. It has been classified destroyed by a tricobalt satellite explosion. All persons aboard your ship have twenty four hours to report to our disintegration machines. In order to ensure their co-operation, I have ordered you, Captain, and your party held in custody until they surrender. If possible, we shall spare your ship, Captain, but its passengers and crew are already dead.
Captain's log, delayed. The Enterprise, in orbit about Eminiar Seven, has been declared a casualty of an incredible war fought by computers. I and my landing party, though apparently not included as casualties aboard the Enterprise, are confined on the planet's surface, awaiting what?
Scene: Room.
Mea said: I have been sent to ask if you require anything.
Kirk said: We require a great deal. I wish to speak to Anan Seven.
Mea said: He's busy co-ordinating casualty lists.
Kirk said: He'll have more casualty lists than he knows what to do with if he doesn't get in here and talk to me.
Mea said: Don't you understand? Our duty
Kirk said: Your duty doesn't include stepping into a disintegrator and disappearing.
Mea said: I'm afraid mine does, Captain. I too have been declared a casualty. I must report to a disintegrator by noon tomorrow.
Kirk said: Is that all it means to you? To report and die?
Mea said: My life is as dear to me as yours is to you, Captain.
Kirk said: Then how can you stand
Mea said: Don't you see? If I refuse to report, and others refuse, then Vendikar would have no choice but to launch real weapons. We would have to do the same to defend ourselves. More than people would die then. A whole civilisation would be destroyed. Surely you can see that ours is a better way.
Kirk said: No, I don't see that at all.
Mea said: It's been our way for almost five hundred years. Is there anything I can bring you?
Kirk said: Yes. Anan Seven.
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: I tell you, we should have heard something by now.
Scott said: Aye, Doctor, that we should, but we haven't, and we cannot raise them. You know, if there'd been trouble, they should have at least managed to get word back to us.
Mccoy said: We can't just sit here.
Scott said: What would you suggest?
Mccoy said: Me? I'm a doctor. If I were an officer of the line, I'd
Scott said: Would you have me open fire?
Mccoy said: Of course not.
Uhura said: Mister Scott, message coming in from the Captain.
Scott said: Scott here, Captain.
Kirk said: Good news, Mister Scott. The Eminians have agreed to the establishment of full normal diplomatic relations.
Scott said: Mister Fox'll be glad to hear about that.
Kirk said: They've also extended an invitation to all personnel to come ashore, for shore leave. They've assured me that our people will have a wonderful time.
Scott said: Er, Captain?
Scene: War Room.
It sounds like Kirk but it isn't. ANAN: Yes, Mister Scott?
Scott said: All personnel?
Anan said: All personnel. We'll transport up trained Eminians to assume support positions. Those are my orders, Mister Scott.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Aye, aye, Captain. We'll start forming shore parties immediately. Scott out. Well now, what do you think of that?
Mccoy said: I don't know.
Scott said: Well, I do. Computer, last message received and recorded from Captain Kirk.
Computer said: In place.
Scott said: Run it through analyser. Question. Is it or is it not the Captain's voice?
Computer said: Negative. A close copy.
Scott said: A voice duplicator?
Computer said: Ninety eight percent probability.
Scott said: Well, they've got them, Doctor, and now they're trying to get us.
Scene: Room.
Kirk said: Are you sure you can do it, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Limited telepathic abilities are inherent in Vulcanians, Captain. It may work. It may not.
Kirk said: Do your best.
Spock goes to the door and begins to slowly work his way across it. Outside, the guard starts to blink and shake his head. Spock reaches the place directly behind the guard and looks as if he is doing a mind meld through the wall. Slowly, the guard opens the door and enters. He is swiftly disarmed and knocked out.
Kirk said: Thank you, Mister Spock.
Spock said: My pleasure, Captain.
Tamula said: What do we do now, Captain?
Kirk said: We get our communicators back and try and contact the ship. Mister Spock, we'll need more weapons.
Spock said: I understand.
Kirk said: We'll try to take it easy, but if we're forced to kill
As holder of the only gun, Kirk leads the way into the corridors of the city.
Scene: Corridor.
At a junction, they watch as first a young woman, then a security guard go into a booth.
Spock said: An entrance, Captain, but no exit. They go in, but they do not come out.
Kirk said: A disintegration machine.
Spock said: So I would assume.
They move forward carefully and meet - 
Kirk said: Mea. What do you think you're doing?
Mea said: I'm going
Kirk said: You're not going in there.
Mea said: But I must.
Kirk said: No you're not.
Mea said: Please. All right, don't worry about me.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, that guard. I'll cover you.
Spock walks nonchalantly up to the guard in charge of disintegrating the waiting queue of people.
Spock said: Sir, there's a multi-legged creature crawling on your shoulder.
He neck-pinches him, as the rest just stare. They now have two weapons. Spock rejoins Kirk.
Kirk said: All right, you people, clear out of the way.
Kirk fires at the booth.
Mea said: What are you doing?
Kirk said: Throwing a monkey wrench into the machinery.
Mea said: You can't do this.
Kirk said: I've done it. (The booth finally blows up.) Come on, let's get out of here.
Scene: Council Room.
Security said: The Federation prisoners have attacked their guard and escaped. They are armed. Disintegration station number twelve destroyed, Councilman, apparently by disruptor fire.
Anan said: All security personnel, Federation prisoners have escaped. They are to be found. They are armed. If they resist, do what is necessary. Planetary disruptor banks, calculate orbit of star cruiser now circling. Stand by to fire. Full power.
Security said: Councilman, planetary disruptor banks locked onto target. Standing by.
Anan said: In ten seconds, open fire. Destroy the star cruiser. Those are the orders of the Council.
Ship's log, stardate 3193.0. Chief Engineer Scott recording. The Captain and First Officer are overdue and missing on the surface of Eminiar Seven. I have taken standard precautionary measures while we continue our attempts to locate them.
Scene: Bridge.
Depaul said: All stations reporting. Deflector screens rigged at full power. Phaser crews ready. Sensors reading zero. Correction. Mister Scott.
Scott said: Yes, Mister DePaul?
Depaul said: Sensor readings just shot off the scale.
Scott said: Well, now. They're taking pot shots at us. Holding, Mister DePaul?
Depaul said: Screens firm, sir. Extremely powerful sonic vibrations. Decibels eighteen to the twelfth power. If those screens weren't up, we'd be totally disrupted by now.
Mccoy said: Well, I guess that answers our questions, Mister Scott. They're not very friendly, are they?
Scott said: Aye, but what about our Captain and the landing party down there somewhere?
Mccoy said: We get them out.
Scott said: If they're alive, and if we can find them. That's a big planet.
Mccoy said: Not too big for the Enterprise to handle if it has to.
Scott said: We can't fire full phasers with our screens up, and We can't lower our screens with their disruptors on us. Of course I could treat them to a few dozen photon torpedoes.
Fox said: (entering the Bridge) You'll do no such thing, Mister Scott.
Scott said: Mister Fox, we're under attack. They're trying to knock us down.
Fox said: You have taken defensive measures.
Scott said: Of course, but
Fox said: There are no buts. Obviously it's a misunderstanding, and one of my jobs is to clear up misunderstandings.
Mccoy said: They're holding our Captain.
Fox said: We have no proof of that.
Scott said: I'm responsible for the safety of this ship.
Fox said: And I'm responsible for the success of this mission, and that's more important than this ship. Is that clear? We came here to establish diplomatic relations with these people.
Scott said: But they're the ones who're looking for a fight, Mister Fox.
Fox said: This is a diplomatic matter. If you check your regulations, you'll find that my orders get priority. I'll try to make contact with the planetary officials. Lieutenant, open up a channel and keep it open. Tell them to expect a priority one message from me. There will be no punitive measures, gentlemen. Those are my orders.
He leaves the Bridge.
Scott said: Diplomats. The best diplomat I know is a fully activated phaser bank.
Scene: Room.
Tamula said: Why did we come back here, Captain?
Kirk said: The last place they'll look for us is the place we escaped from. (gives her a gun) Cover the door.
Mea said: Captain, you've got to let me go. My time is almost up.
Kirk said: Are you that anxious to die?
Mea said: You don't understand.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, how did that little raid work out?
Spock said: We captured four of their disrupter-type weapons, two complete outfits of male clothing, and perhaps most important of all, one of their communication devices.
Kirk said: Will it reach the ship?
Spock said: Not at this time. Its range is restricted in comparison with ours. I may be able to alter its components, but it will take time.
Kirk said: Work on it. We've got to contact the ship. Mea, I want you to give me a complete layout of this building complex. How do I get to the War Room?
Mea said: No!
Kirk said: Now listen to me. I'm trying to help you. To save your life and the lives of millions like you. If you help me, maybe I can do it. If you don't, you'll die, we'll die, and the killing will go on. Or are you that fond of the war?
Mea said: What are you going to do?
Kirk said: We're going to try and stop the killing. We're trying to help. Believe me.
Mea said: I believe you, but
Kirk said: Tell me what I want to know. Please.
Scene: Council Room.
Anan said: Time is running out. We have been unable to destroy the Earth ship. One of our disintegration chambers has been eliminated and we have already fallen far behind in our quota. This is a grave crisis and I am at a loss to know how to proceed.
Sar said: The central channel, Anan. The Earth ambassador's calling with an urgent message.
Anan said: What is the great immorality, open honesty or a deception which may save our lives? Put me through to the Earth Ambassador.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: A channel is open, Mister Ambassador. You will be speaking to Anan Seven, head of the High Council of the Eminian Union.
Fox said: Mister Anan, this is Robert Fox
{Council Room]
Fox said: Special Ambassador for the United Federation of Planets.
Anan said: A great honour, Mister Ambassador.
Scene: Bridge.
Fox said: We have approached you openly
Scene: Council Room.
Fox said: With the intent of establishing formal and friendly relations between our peoples, but now,
Scene: Bridge.
Fox said: For some reason, you have attacked us, and apparently you're holding several special representatives of our Federation.
Scene: Council Room.
Anan said: A mistake, Mister Ambassador. We are at war.
Scene: Bridge.
Anan said: An error in our sensors indicated that your ship was about to attack us.
Scene: Council Room.
Anan said: I'm giving orders that our attack be stopped.
Scene: Bridge.
Anan said: Now, as to your representatives, you have my sacred word as an Eminian that they are alive and well.
Fox said: Thank you. I thought perhaps it was all a mistake.
Depaul said: Mister Scott, disruptor beams are no longer hitting us.
Scott said: Maintain status, Mister DePaul.
Anan said: We are most anxious to establish relations with you, Mister Fox.
Scene: Council Room.
Anan said: We will make arrangements to receive you. (to Sar, closing the channel) The minute their screens are down, open fire.
Sar said: Yes, Councilman.
Anan said: (reopening the channel) I apologise deeply for the misunderstanding. These are trying times for us, you understand.
Scene: Bridge.
Fox said: I understand. Mister Anan, I presume that you have our ship's Captain on hand when I beam down.
Scene: Council Room.
Anan said: He will be there, sir.
Scene: Bridge.
Anan said: I give you my word.
Fox said: I'm sure that from this day forward, your planet and our Federation will attain the deepest friendship. I look forward to seeing you.
He gestures to Uhura to end transmission.
Fox said: Diplomacy, gentlemen, should be a job left to diplomats. You will, of course, immediately resume a peaceful status.
Scott said: No, sir, I will not.
Fox said: What did you say?
Scott said: I'll not lower the screens, not until the Captain tells me to.
Fox said: You are taking orders from me. You will lower the screens as a sign of good faith. My authority.
Scott said: I know about your authority, but the screens stay up.
Mccoy said: Mister Fox, they faked a message from the Captain, they've launched an attack against our ship. Now you want us to trust them openly?
Fox said: I want you and expect you to obey my lawful orders.
Scott said: No, sir. I won't lower the screens.
Fox said: Your refusal to comply with my orders has endangered the entire success of this mission. I can have you sent to a penal colony for this.
Scott said: That you can, sir, but I won't lower the screens.
Fox said: Your name will figure prominently in my report to the Federation Central.
Fox leaves the Bridge
Mccoy said: Well, Scotty, now you've done it.
Scott said: Aye. The haggis is in the fire for sure, but I'll not lower my defences on the word of that mealy-mouthed gentleman down below. Not until I know what happened to the Captain.
Scene: Anan's room.
Kirk enters, quietly, but Anan knows he is there without turning around.
Anan said: Won't you join me in a drink, Captain? You'll find our trova most interesting.
Kirk said: I didn't come to drink.
Anan said: I assume that is what you used to destroy disintegration chamber number twelve.
Kirk said: A very efficient weapon. I'm not afraid of using it.
Anan said: My first impression was correct. You are a barbarian.
Kirk said: I am?
Anan said: Don't sound so incredulous, Captain. Of course you are. We all are. A killer first, a builder second. A hunter, a warrior, and let's be honest, a murderer. That is our joint heritage, is it not?
Kirk said: We're less cold-blooded about it than you are.
Anan said: What do you want, Captain?
Kirk said: I want to contact my ship. Where are my communicators?
Anan said: In a safe place.
Kirk said: You take a lot of chances, Councilman.
Anan said: You're worried about your ship, Captain. I'm trying to save a world.
Kirk said: If I were you, I'd think about saving my life.
Anan said: Won't you have a drink, Captain?
Kirk pours himself a slug of trova, and as he turns his back, Anan presses concealed buttons.
Anan said: And then we can discuss our differences.
Kirk said: I'm not interested in discussing our differences. You don't seem to realise the risk you're taking. We don't make war with computers and herd the casualties into suicide stations. We make the real thing, Councilman. I could destroy this planet.
Anan said: Why do you think I don't let you talk to your ship ?
Kirk said: I don't need the ship for that.
Anan said: You mean, all by yourself with a disruptor, you can destroy this planet?
Kirk said: That's exactly what I mean.
Anan said: I had no idea you were so formidable.
Kirk said: You seem to think I'm joking. Where are the communicators?
Anan said: If I told you, Captain, would you walk right out and get them?
Kirk said: Something like that.
Anan said: Very well, Captain. They're in the War Room. Go left down the corridor, left again. They are unguarded.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk gestures Anan to leave in front of him, and pushes him into the first guard outside the door. Then Kirk tackles the second guard, but finally the pair knock him out. ANAN: Is he alive? Pity. Man like that would have preferred to die fighting. Take him to the Council Room.
Kirk is half-dragged away
Scene: Eminiar Seven.
Fox and his aide beam down to exactly the same place as the original landing party.
Anan said: Ambassador Fox?
Fox said: I am Robert Fox. Have I the honour of addressing Anan Seven?
Anan said: Welcome to Eminiar, Mister Ambassador.
Scene: Corridor.
Anan said: Mister Ambassador, I am truly sorry for what must happen.
Fox said: I beg your pardon?
Anan said: You and your party have been declared war casualties. You will be taken immediately to one of our casualty stations so that your deaths may be recorded.
Fox said: You mean we are to be killed?
Anan said: That is correct, Mister Ambassador. I regret it very much, but there is nothing I can do about it.
Scene: Room.
The two security guards are in Eminian uniform and look like something out of Thunderbirds - the puppet show, that is.
Spock said: Spock to Enterprise, come in.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Mister Scott, it's Mister Spock.
Scott said: Scotty here, Mister Spock. Go ahead.
Scene: Room.
Spock said: Is the ship all right?
Scott said: We've been through a bit, but we're all right now. How about the Captain and you?
Spock said: The Captain is overdue. We've suffered no casualties among us. This is important. Under no circumstances shall any one beam down from the Enterprise. They'd be killed the moment they arrived.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: That ties it. That popinjay Fox went down a couple minutes ago.
Scene: Room.
Spock said: The Ambassador?
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: I knew it had a rotten ring to it.
Scene: Room.
Spock said: Orbit out to maximum phaser range and stand by for further orders. Spock out.
Tamula said: What are you going to do, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Find the Ambassador and the Captain. Yeoman Tamula, you stay here and prevent this young lady from immolating herself. Knock her down if necessary. This is a killing situation. Do what you must to protect yourself. Clear?
Tamula said: Yes, sir.
Scene: Disintegration chamber.
A guard is trying to force Fox inside when Spock and the two guards arrive.
Fox said: What are you doing? I'm a representative of the United Federation of Planets! A special representative!
Guard said: Get in line.
They disarm and disable the Eminian guards
Fox said: Spock!
Spock said: Please, Mister Fox. Ladies and gentlemen, please move quickly away from the chamber or you may be injured.
Fox said: What are you doing, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Practicing a peculiar variety of diplomacy, sir.
He uses the disrupter to destroy the disintegration chamber
Spock said: I'll take you to a place of comparative safety, then I must find the Captain.
Fox said: They have him. The guards told us. They took him to the Council Room under heavy guard.
Spock said: By now, Mister Ambassador, I'm sure you realise that normal diplomatic procedures are ineffective here.
Fox said: I've never been a soldier, Mister Spock, but I learn very quickly.
Spock said: Very well, sir. We need all the help we can get.
Scene: Council Room.
Anan said: Captain, surely you can see the position we are in. If your people do not report to our disintegration chambers, it is a violation of an agreement that dates back five hundred years.
Kirk said: My people are not responsible for your agreements.
Anan said: You will be responsible for an escalation that will destroy everything. Millions of people horribly killed. Complete destruction of our culture here and yes, the culture on Vendikar. Disaster, disease, starvation, horrible, lingering death, pain and anguish!
Kirk said: That seems to frighten you.
Anan said: It would frighten any sane man.
Kirk said: Yes. You're quite right.
Anan said: Don't you understand, Captain? We have done away with all that. Now you are threatening to bring it down on us again. Are those five hundred people of yours more important than the hundreds of millions of innocent people on Eminiar and Vendikar? What kind of monster are you?
Kirk said: I'm a barbarian. You said it yourself.
Anan said: I had hoped I'd spoken only figuratively.
Kirk said: Oh, no. You were quite accurate. I plan to prove it to you. ANAN: Open a channel to the Enterprise. You give me no choice, Captain. We are not bandits, but you force us to act as bandits.
Scott said: This is the USS Enterprise.
Kirk said: Scotty, General Order Twenty Four. Two hours! In two hours!
Anan said: Enterprise, this is Anan Seven, First Councilman of the High Council of Eminiar.
Scene: Bridge.
Anan said: We hold your Captain, his party, your Ambassador and his party prisoners.
Scene: Council Room.
Anan said: Unless you immediately start transportation of all personnel aboard your ship to the surface, the hostages will be killed. You have thirty minutes. I mean it, Captain.
Kirk said: All that it means is that I won't be around for the destruction. You heard me give General Order Twenty Four. That means in two hours the Enterprise will destroy Eminiar Seven.
Anan said: Planetary defence System, open fire on the Enterprise!
Security said: I'm sorry, Councilman. The target has moved out of range.
Anan said: You wouldn't do this. Hundreds of millions of people.
Kirk said: I didn't start it, Councilman, but I'm liable to finish it.
Meanwhile Spock and his group are moving through the corridors. Fox's aide gets injured in one weapons exchange so they leave him behind.
Sar said: Councilman, I received a message from Vendikar. Our time is nearly up. Our quota is short by several thousand. They accuse us of reneging on the treaty.
Anan said: You see? It's started.
Kirk said: You're wrong. It hasn't begun.
Security said: Councilman, Disintegrator station eleven has been destroyed. Guard positions in tunnels eight and ten fail to answer. Earth party reported seen in corridor 4A.
Kirk said: You have less than two hours, Councilman.
Anan said: What I want or don't want has nothing to do with it. Escalation is automatic. You can stop it!
Kirk said: Stop it? I'm counting on it.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Open a channel, Lieutenant. This is the commander of the USS Enterprise.
Scene: Council Room.
Scott said: All cities and installations on Eminiar Seven have been located, identified, and fed into our fire-control system. In one hour and forty five minutes
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: The entire inhabited surface of your planet will be destroyed.
Scene: Council Room.
Scott said: You have that long to surrender your hostages.
Anan said: What can I do? Somebody, please tell me.
Kirk lures a guard to him, knocks him down, gets his weapon and holds off the others.
Kirk said: Hold it! Over there. You, over there. Move, move, move.
Everyone goes over against a wall, while Kirk gets a second weapon and stands by the council table.
Kirk said: Now we'll talk.
Spock and Fox enter.
Spock said: I had assumed you needed help. I see I'm in error.
Kirk said: No. I need the help. In there, Mister Spock.
Spock enters the War Room
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise. Come in, Scotty.
Scott said: Aye, Captain, are you all right?
Kirk said: Everything's secure here. Maintain position. If everything goes according to plan, you can beam us up in ten minutes. If you don't hear from us, carry out General Order Twenty Four on schedule.
Scott said: Aye, aye, Captain. Is there anything else we can do?
Kirk said: Cross your fingers. Kirk out. Death, destruction, disease, horror. That's what war is all about, Anan. That's what makes it a thing to be avoided. You've made it neat and painless. So neat and painless, you've had no reason to stop it. And you've had it for five hundred years. Since it seems to be the only way I can save my crew and my ship, I'm going to end it for you, one way or another. Mister Ambassador.
Fox said: Yes, Captain.
Kirk said: Would you mind taking these people out into the corridor and holding them there.
Fox said: Gentlemen, if you please.
Kirk said: (to Sar) You. Come with me. Mister Osborne.
Scene: War Room.
Kirk said: Our communicators, weapons.
Sar opens a cupboard and Osborne gets them.
Kirk said: All right, Mister Spock. SPOCK: These are the attack computers, Captain. That one's defence, that one computes the casualties. They're all tied in with a subspace transmission unit, which keeps them in constant contact with their Vendikan counterparts.
Kirk said: Yes, go on.
Spock said: At the moment contact is broken, it abrogates the agreement between the two warring parties.
Sar said: What are you going to do?
Spock said: This one's the key. The circuit is now locked. Destroy this one, and they'll all go.
Kirk said: Good. Get him out of here.
Sar said: Now wait a minute. Please, please!
Kirk uses his phaser to destroy the computer.
Kirk said: Let's go.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: Against the wall!
There is a very satisfying series of explosions.
Anan said: You realise what you have done?
Kirk said: Yes, I do. I've given you back the horrors of war. The Vendikans now assume that you've broken your agreement and that you're preparing to wage real war with real weapons. They'll want do the same. Only the next attack they launch will do a lot more than count up numbers in a computer. They'll destroy cities, devastate your planet. You of course will want to retaliate. If I were you, I'd start making bombs. Yes, Councilman, you have a real war on your hands. You can either wage it with real weapons, or you might consider an alternative. Put an end to it. Make peace.;
Anan said: There can be no peace. Don't you see? We've admitted it to ourselves. We're a killer species. It's instinctive. It's the same with you. Your General Order Twenty Four.
Kirk said: All right. It's instinctive. But the instinct can be fought. We're human beings with the blood of a million savage years on our hands, but we can stop it. We can admit that we're killers, but we're not going to kill today. That's all it takes. Knowing that we won't kill today. Contact Vendikar. I think you'll find that they're just as terrified, appalled, horrified as you are, that they'll do anything to avoid the alternative I've given you. Peace or utter destruction. It's up to you.
Fox said: As a third party interested only in peace and the establishment of normal relations, I should be glad to offer my services as negotiator between you and Vendikar. I've had some small experiences in such matters.
Anan said: There may be a chance. We have a direct channel with Vendikar's High Council. It hasn't been used in centuries.
Fox said: Then it's long overdue. Shall we go?
Anan and Fox leave.
Spock said: There's a chance it may work, Captain.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise. Scotty?
Scott said: Scott here, Captain.
Kirk said: Cancel implementation of General Order Twenty Four. Alert transporter room. We're ready to beam up.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Lay in a course for Argona Two, Navigator. Mister Scott.
Scott said: Space details set, Captain.
Uhura said: Message from Eminiar Seven, Captain. Ambassador Fox reports negotiations underway with Vendikar. Outlook hopeful.
Kirk said: Good.
Spock said: Captain, you took a big chance.
Kirk said: Did I, Mister Spock? They've been killing three million people a year. It had been going on for five hundred years. An actual attack wouldn't have killed any more people than one of their computer attacks, but it would have ended their ability to make war. The fighting would have been over permanently.
Mccoy said: But you didn't know that it would work.
Kirk said: No. It was a calculated risk. Still, the Eminians keep a very orderly society, and actual war is a very messy business. A very, very messy business. I had a feeling that they would do anything to avoid it, even talk peace.
Spock said: A feeling is not much to go on.
Kirk said: Sometimes a feeling, Mister Spock, is all we humans have to go on.
Spock said: Captain, you almost make me believe in luck.
Kirk said: Why, Mister Spock, you almost make me believe in miracles.