Where No Man Has Gone Before
Stardate:
1312.4
Original Airdate: 22 Sep, 1966
Captain's log, Star date 1312.4. The impossible has happened. From directly ahead, we're picking up a recorded distress signal, the call letters of a vessel which has been missing for over two centuries. Did another Earth ship once probe out of the galaxy as we intend to do? What happened to it out there? Is this some warning they've left behind?
Scene: Briefing room.
Spock said: Your move, Captain.
Kirk said: We should have intercepted by now. The Bridge said they'd call.
Spock said: I'll have you checkmated your next move.
Kirk said: Have I ever mentioned you play a very irritating game of chess, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Irritating? Ah, yes. One of your Earth emotions.
Kirk said: Certain you don't know what irritation is?
Spock said: The fact one of my ancestors married a human female
Kirk said: Terrible having bad blood like that.
KELSO [on monitor] Bridge to briefing lounge. Object is now within tractor beam range.
Kirk said: No visual contact, Mister Kelso?
Kelso said: No, sir. It's too small to be a vessel. It only reads about one metre in diameter.
Spock said: Not large enough even for a lifeboat.
KELSO [on monitor] Small enough to bring it aboard, sir, if you want to risk it.
Kirk said: Lock onto it, Mister Kelso.
Scene: Transporter room.
Scott said: Materialiser ready, sir.
Kirk said: Bring it aboard. Old-style ship recorder that could be ejected when something threatened the ship.
Spock said: More like destroyed the ship in this case. Look at it. Burnt, pitted.
Kirk said: Let's hope its tapes are intact. We'll feed it through Mister Spock's computer.
Scott said: Yes, sir. It's begun transmitting, sir.
Kirk said: Flash the Bridge. Put all decks on the alert.
Scene: Turbolift.
Mitchell said: Hold it, Jim.
Kirk said: Getting into shape?
Mitchell said: Yeah, well I figured you weren't on the Bridge. Kelso's voice sounded a little nervous. Well, uh, you finish the game?
Spock said: He played most illogically. His next move should have been the rook.
Scene: Bridge.
Mitchell said: Yore relieved, Mister Alden.
Alden said: Acknowledged, Mister Mitchell.
Kirk said: Screen on.
Kelso said: Screen on, sir. Approaching galaxy edge, sir.
Kirk said: Neutralise warp, Mister Mitchell. Hold this position.
Mitchell said: Neutralise warp, sir.
Kirk said: Address intercraft.
Mitchell said: Intercraft open.
Kirk said: This is the Captain speaking. The object we encountered is a ship's disaster recorder, apparently ejected from the S.S. Valiant two hundred years ago.
Spock said: The tapes are burnt out. Trying the memory banks.
Kirk said: We hope to learn from the recorder what the Valiant was doing here and what destroyed the vessel. We'll move out into our probe as soon as we have those answers. All decks, stand by.
Mitchell said: Department heads, sir. You wanted everybody on the Bridge before we left the galaxy. Jones. SMITH: The name's Smith, sir.
Sulu said: Astro sciences standing by, Captain.
Scott said: Engineering division ready, as always.
Piper said: Life sciences ready, sir. This is Doctor Dehner, who joined the ship at the Aldebaran colony.
Dehner said: Psychiatry, Captain. My assignment is to study crew reaction in emergency conditions.
Spock said: Getting something from the recorder now.
Dehner said: lf there was an emergency, I'd be interested in how that crew reacted, too.
Mitchell said: Improving the breed, Doctor? Is that your line?
Dehner said: I heard that's more your specialty, Commander, line included.
Mitchell said: (to Kelso) Walking freezer unit.
Spock said: Decoding memory banks. I'll try to interpolate. The Valiant had encountered a magnetic space storm and was being swept in this direction.
Kirk said: The old impulse engines weren't strong enough.
Spock said: Swept past this point, about a half light year out of the galaxy, they were thrown clear, turned, and headed back into the galaxy here. I'm not getting it all. The tapes are pretty badly burned. Sounds like the ship had encountered some unknown force. Now, orders, counter orders, repeated urgent requests for information from the ship's computer records for anything concerning ESP in human beings.
Kirk said: Extrasensory perception. Doctor Dehner, how are you on ESP?
Dehner said: In tests I've taken, my ESP rated rather high.
Kirk said: I'm asking what you know about ESP.
Dehner said: It is a fact that some people can sense future happenings, read the backs of playing cards and so on, but the esper capacity is always quite limited.
Spock said: Severe damage. Seven crewmen dead. No, make that six. One crewman seemed to have recovered. That's when they became interested in extrasensory perception. More than interested, almost frantic about it. No, this must be garbled. I get something about destruct. I must have read it wrong. It sounded like the captain giving an order to destroy his own ship.
Kirk said: Comments?
Piper said: The only fact we have for sure is that the S.S. Valiant was destroyed.
Kirk said: That's probably the best argument to continue the probe. Other vessels will be heading out here someday and they'll have to know what they'll be facing. We're leaving the galaxy, Mister Mitchell. Ahead, warp factor one.
Spock said: Force field of some kind.
Mitchell said: We're coming up on it fast.
Spock said: Sensor beam on.
Kelso said: Sensor beam on, sir.
Spock said: Deflectors full intensity.
Kelso said: Deflectors full intensity.
Spock said: Deflectors say there's something there, sensors say there isn't. Density negative. Radiation negative. Energy negative.
Kelso said: Whatever it is, contact in twelve seconds.
Kirk said: Gravitation on automatic. (consoles blow up) Emergency stations. All decks on fire alert. Neutralise controls. Kelso, put it on manual. Any radiation? Anything?
Spock said: Negative!
Kirk said: Helmsmen, take us out of here. (Dehner gets hit by an electric charge, then Mitchell) Helmsmen! (Kirk takes controls) Lateral power! (Spock takes over, Enterprise veers away) Take damage reports.
Spock said: Damage control reports, all stations!
Crewman said: Gravity control switching to batteries.
Dehner said: Something hit me, like an electrical charge.
Piper said: He's alive. Appears to be in shock.
Crewman said: Engineering deck three, can you give damage report?
Crewman 2 said: Sensor beams. Full power on the deflectors.
Spock said: Main engines are out, sir. We're on emergency power cells. Casualties, nine dead.
Crewman said: Gravity is down to point eight.
Crewman 2 said: All decks, this is Bridge Engineering. Due to emergency conditions.
Kirk said: Gary. Gary, are you all right?
Mitchell said: I'm a little weak for some reason, Jim, but I feel all right now. (opens eyes, they're glowing)
Captain's log, Star date 1312.9. Ship's condition, heading back on impulse power only. Main engines burned out. The ship's space warp ability gone. Earth bases which were only days away are now years in the distance. Our overriding question now is what destroyed the Valiant? They lived through the barrier, just as we have. What happened to them after that?
Scene: Bridge.
Dehner said: Autopsy report, sir. Each case showed damage to the body's neural circuit. An area of the brain was burned out.
Kirk said: And you, are you feeling all right?
Dehner said: Yes. Mitchell, too, except for his eyes. We're trying to find a reason for that now, and why, out of our whole crew, only certain people were affected.
Spock said: I think we've found that answer, Doctor.
Kirk said: You mentioned that tests show you have a high degree of extrasensory perception. So do the records of the others. Gary Mitchell has the highest esper rating of all.
Dehner said: lf you're suggesting there's anything dangerous
Spock said: Before the Valiant was destroyed, its captain was frantically searching for ESP information on his crew.
Dehner said: Espers are simply people with flashes of insight.
Spock said: Are there not also those who seem to see through solid objects, cause fires to start spontaneously?
Dehner said: There's nothing about it that could possibly make a person dangerous.
Spock said: Doctor Dehner is speaking of normal ESP power.
Dehner said: Perhaps you know of another kind?
Kirk said: Do we know for sure, Doctor, that there isn't another kind?
Scene: Sickbay.
Mitchell said: (without looking) Hello, Jim. Hey, you look worried.
Kirk said: I've been worried about you ever since that night on Deneb IV.
Mitchell said: Yeah, she was nova, that one. Not nearly as many after-effects this time, except for the eyes. They kind of stare back at me when I'm shaving.
Kirk said: Do you feel any different?
Mitchell said: In a way, I feel better than I've ever felt before in my life. It actually seems to have done me some good.
Kirk said: How?
Mitchell said: Well, I'm getting a chance to read some of that longhair stuff you like. Hey man, I remember you back at the academy. A stack of books with legs. The first thing I ever heard from upperclassmen was, Watch out for Lieutenant Kirk. In his class, you either think or sink.
Kirk said: I wasn't that bad, was I?
Mitchell said: If I hadn't aimed that little blonde lab technician at you
Kirk said: You what? You planned that?
Mitchell said: Well, you wanted me to think, didn't you? I outlined her whole campaign for her.
Kirk said: I almost married her!
Mitchell said: You better be good to me. I'm getting even better ideas here.
Kirk said: You? Spinoza?
Mitchell said: Once you get into him, he's rather simple though. Childish, almost. I don't agree with him at all.
Kirk said: Go on.
Mitchell said: I'm trying to tell you I feel fine. When do I go back on duty?
Kirk said: I'm going to ask Doctor Dehner to keep you under observation for a while.
Mitchell said: With almost a hundred women onboard, you can do better than that, friend Captain.
Kirk said: Consider it a challenge.
Mitchell said: That doesn't seem very friendly. Didn't I say you'd better be good to me?
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: He's reading even faster now than just a few moments ago. Is that Gary Mitchell, the one you used to know?
Kirk said: Put a twenty four hour watch on the Sickbay. Fullest possible range of examinations and tests.
Scene: Sickbay.
Piper said: Perfect, perfect. I've never had a patient like you, Gary. Even the healthiest are generally off on some reading. leaves)
Dehner said: I know you don't particularly like me, Mister Mitchell, but since I am assigned here, can we make the best of it?
Mitchell said: I've got nothing against you, Doctor.
Dehner said: Nor against the walking freezer unit?
Mitchell said: Well, I, sorry about that.
Dehner said: Women professionals do tend to overcompensate. Now let's talk about you. How do you feel?
Mitchell said: You know, everybody, everybody seems worried that I don't have some kind of fever or something. Maybe if we could just change these dials (sends them soaring). Now back to normal, I think.
Dehner said: How did you do that?
Mitchell said: I'm not sure, I, I just thought of making it happen, and it does. It's, hey, er hey watch this, Doc.
indicators plummet, Mitchell collapses
Dehner said: Stop it. Stop it! You were dead for almost twenty two seconds. There were no readings at all.
Mitchell said: Yeah. Oh, boy. You, you know, Doc, there have been other things too, like going halfway through the ship's library in hardly a day. Yeah. Oh, what's happening to me?
Dehner said: Do you remember everything you read that quickly?
Mitchell said: Yeah.
Dehner said: On any tape?
Mitchell said: Sure. Yeah.
Dehner said: Try this one.
Mitchell said: Yeah.
Dehner said: Page three eighty seven.
Mitchell said: My love has wings. Slender, feathered things with grace in upswept curve and tapered tip. The Nightingale Woman, written by Phineas Tarbolde on the Canopius planet back in 1996. It's funny you picked that one, Doctor.
Dehner said: Why?
Mitchell said: That's one of the most passionate love sonnets of the past couple of centuries. How do you feel, Doctor?
Dehner said: What?
Mitchell said: How do you feel?
Dehner said: I just fell. Nothing happened.
MITCHELL No? Are you sure? Are you sure?
Kelso said: Er, I was on my coffee break. I thought I'd check up on
MITCHELL Yeah, that's okay Lee, come on in. Don't let the light in my eyes bother you, pal. It's all for our, our good-looking lady doctor here.
Kelso said: Yeah. Sure.
Mitchell said: So, er, so, how go the repairs?
Kelso said: Well, the main engines are gone, unless we can find some way to re-energise them.
Mitchell said: You'd better check the starboard impulse packs. Those points have about decayed to lead.
Kelso said: Oh, yeah, sure, Mitch.
Mitchell said: I'm not joking, Lee! You activate those packs, and you'll blow the whole impulse deck.
Kelso said: I'll, er, I'll get on it right away. I just wanted to stop by and make sure you were okay. See you later. (leaves)
Mitchell said: He's a fool. A fool. He'd seen those points and he hadn't noticed their condition.
Dehner said: How do you know?
Mitchell said: The image of what he'd seen was still in his mind.
Scene: Briefing room.
Kelso said: Well, it didn't make any sense that he'd know, but naturally, I checked out the circuit anyway. I don't know how, but he was right. This point is burned out exactly the way he described it.
Dehner said: Sorry I'm late. I became so interested in observing Gary, Mister Mitchell.
Spock said: Our subject is not Gary Mitchell. Our concern is, rather, what he is mutating into.
Dehner said: I know those from your planet aren't suppose to have feelings like we do, Mister Spock, but to talk that way about a man you've worked next to for years is worse than
Kirk said: That's enough, Doctor.
Dehner said: I don't think so. I understand you least of all. Gary told me that you've been friends since he joined the service, that you asked for him aboard your first command.
Kirk said: It is my duty, whether pleasant or unpleasant, to listen to the reports, observations, even speculations, on any subject that might affect the safety of this vessel, and it's my science officer's duty to see I'm provided with that. Go ahead, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Have you noted evidence of unusual powers?
Dehner said: He can control certain autonomic reflexes. He reads very fast, retains more than most of us might consider usual.
Kirk said: Mister Scott, would you repeat what you just told us?
Scott said: About an hour ago, the Bridge controls started going crazy. Levers shifting by themselves, buttons being pushed, instrument readings changing.
Spock said: And on my monitor screen I could see Mitchell smiling each time it happened, as if this ship and crew were almost a toy for his amusement.
Kirk said: Are they right, Doctor? Has he shown abilities of such magnitude?
Dehner said: I saw some such indications.
Kirk said: And you didn't think it worth mentioning?
Dehner said: No one's been hurt, have they? Don't you understand? A mutated superior man could also be a wonderful thing. The forerunner of a new and better kind of human being.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: If you want the mathematics of this, Mitchell's ability is increasing geometrically. That is, like having a penny, doubling it every day. In a month, you'll be a millionaire.
Spock said: In less time than that, he will have attained powers we can't understand and can't cope with. Soon we'll be not only useless to him, but actually an annoyance.
Kirk said: There'll be no discussion of this with the crew. Thank you. (everyone else leaves)
Spock said: We'll never reach an Earth base with him aboard, Jim. You heard the mathematics of it. In a month he'll have as much in common with us as we'd have with a ship full of white mice.
Kirk said: I need a recommendation, Spock, not vague warnings.
Spock said: Recommendation one. There's a planet a few light days away from here. Delta Vega. It has a lithium cracking station. We may be able to adapt some of its power packs to our engines.
Kirk said: And if we can't? We'll be trapped in orbit there. We haven't enough power to blast back out.
Spock said: It is the only possible way to get Mitchell off this ship.
Kirk said: If you mean strand Mitchell there, I won't do it. That station is fully automated. There's not a soul on the whole planet. Even the ore ships call only once every twenty years.
Spock said: Then you have one other choice. Kill Mitchell while you still can.
Kirk said: Get out of here.
Spock said: It is your only other choice, assuming you make it while you still have time.
Kirk said: Will you try for one moment to feel? At least act like you've got a heart. We're talking about Gary.
Spock said: The captain of the Valiant probably felt the same way, and he waited too long to make his decision. I think we've both guessed that.
Kirk said: Set course for Delta Vega.
Star date 1313.1. We're now approaching Delta Vega. Course set for a standard orbit. This planet, completely uninhabited, is slightly smaller than Earth. Desolate, but rich in crystal and minerals. Kelso's task, transport down with a repair party, try to regenerate the main engines, save the ship. Our task, transport down a man I've known for fifteen years, and if we're successful, maroon him there.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mitchell said: I'm thirsty. (cup slides under tap, is filled, then flies through the air to his hand) It's like a man who has been blind all of his life, suddenly being given sight. Sometimes I feel there's nothing I couldn't do, in time. Some people think that makes me a monster, don't they Jim.
Kirk said: Are you reading all our thoughts, Gary?
Mitchell said: I can sense mainly worry in you, Jim. Safety of your ship.
Kirk said: What would you do in my place?
Mitchell said: Probably just what Mister Spock is thinking now. Kill me while you can.
He zaps Kirk and Spock with electric bolts
Dehner said: Stop it, Gary!
Mitchell said: I also know we're orbiting Delta Vega, Jim. I can't let you force me down there. I may not want to leave this ship, not yet. I may want another place. I'm not sure yet just what kind of a world I can use.
Dehner said: Use?
Mitchell said: I don't understand it all yet, but if I keep growing, getting stronger, why, the things I could do, like, like maybe a god could do. (Kirk knocks him out)
Kirk said: I want him unconscious for a while. (Dehner sedates him)
Scene: Transporter room.
Mitchell said: You fools! Soon I'll squash you like insects. (Piper re-sedates him)
Kirk said: Energise.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: Can you do it, Lee?
Kelso said: Maybe, if we can bypass the fuel bins without blowing ourselves up.
Kirk said: Take him.
Dehner said: There's not a soul on this planet but us?
Kirk said: Nobody but us chickens, Doctor.
Scene: Delta Vega Control room.
Alden said: I think I've got the 203-R set, Lee.
Kelso said: Good, Alden. Transport it up with you, will you?
Alden said: Okay.
Kirk said: The fuel bins, Lee. Could they be detonated from here?
Kelso said: A destruct switch? I guess I could wire one up right there.
Kirk said: Do it.
Spock said: He's regaining consciousness.
Scene: Delta Vega Brig.
Kirk said: Doctor Piper. I want only one medical officer here at any one time. The other will monitor him on the dispensary screen.
Dehner said: I'd like to stay now, try to talk to him.
Mitchell said: My friend James Kirk. remember those rodent things on Dimorus? The poisoned darts they threw? I took one meant for you.
Kirk said: And almost died. I remember.
Mitchell said: So why be afraid of me now?
Kirk said: You've been testing your ability to take over the Enterprise. In the transporter room, you said something about us seeming like insects by comparison, squashing us if we got in your way.
Mitchell said: I was drugged then.
Kirk said: Yes. In the Sickbay, you said if you were in my place, you'd kill a mutant like yourself.
Mitchell said: Why don't you kill me then? Mister Spock is right and you're a fool if you can't see it.
Dehner said: You don't mean that, Gary.
Mitchell said: Man cannot survive if a race of true espers is born. In time you'll understand that. (tests the forcefield)
Kirk said: Gary. Gary, don't!
Mitchell said: Jim.
Kirk said: His eyes went back to normal.
Spock said: Fighting the force field drained his strength, for a while at least. He could be handled now.
Mitchell said: I'll just keep getting stronger. You know that, don't you.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: (having put new panel in a bridge station) It fits like a glove, Captain.
Scene: Delta Vega Control room.
Scott said: Oh, did Mister Spock get the phaser rifle we sent down?
Kirk said: I didn't order any (Spock enters with rifle) Affirmative. Landing party out.
Spock said: He tried to get through the force field again. His eyes changed back faster. He didn't become as weak.
Kirk said: Doctor Dehner feels he isn't that dangerous. What makes you right and a trained psychiatrist wrong?
Spock said: Because she feels. I don't. All I know is logic. In my opinion we'll be lucky if we can repair this ship and get away in time.
Kelso said: Direct to the power bins. From here you could blow up this whole valley.
Kirk said: If Mitchell gets out, at your discretion, Lee, if sitting here, you think you're the last chance, I want you to hit that button.
Captain's log, Star date 1313.3. Note commendations on Lieutenant Kelso and the engineering staff. In orbit above us, the engines of the Enterprise are almost fully regenerated. Balance of the landing party is being transported back up. Mitchell, whatever he's become, keeps changing, growing stronger by the minute.
Scene: Delta Vega Brig.
Dehner said: He's been like that for hours now.
Kirk said: Have Doctor Piper meet us in the control room with Kelso. We'll all transport up together.
Spock said: If he should try to stop us
Kirk said: Kelso will be on the destruct button until the last minute. I think he knows that.
Dehner said: I'm staying behind with him.
Scene: Delta Vega Control room.
Kelso said: Fission chamber three checks out. The station seems to be running fine.
Scott said: You're a talented thief, Kelso. Everything you sent up seems to be fitting in place.
Kelso said: I'm kind of proud of the job we've done. We're going to be ready to transport up (a cable loops over his neck from behind and throttles him)
Scene: Delta Vega Brig.
Kirk said: You're leaving with the ship, Doctor.
Dehner said: He is not evil.
Kirk said: I gave you an order, Doctor.
Mitchell said: You should have killed me while you could, James. Command and compassion is a fool's mixture. (zaps Kirk and Spock then waves away the forcefield. He leads Dehner into his cell and we see in the mirror her eyes are like his now)
Piper said: It hit me, too, whatever it was. Kelso is dead, strangled. At least Spock's alive.
Kirk said: Doctor Dehner?
Piper said: She went with Mitchell.
Kirk said: Don't give him a pill until after I'm gone. It's my fault Mitchell got as far as he did. Did you see their direction?
Piper said: Yes, there was some morning light. They were headed across the valley, to the left of the pointed peaks. There's flatlands beyond.
Kirk said: When Mister Spock recovers, you'll both transport up immediately to the Enterprise.
Piper said: But Captain
Kirk said: If you have not received a signal from me within twelve hours, you'll proceed at maximum warp to the nearest Earth base with my recommendation that this entire planet be subjected to a lethal concentration of neutron radiation. No protest on this, Mark. That's an order.
Scene: Planet surface.
Dehner said: It would take almost a miracle to survive here.
Mitchell said: Then I shall make one. Behold. (creates and oasis with flowers and a spring) You'll soon share this feeling, Elizabeth. To be like God, to have the power to make the world anything you want it to be.
Dehner said: What's wrong?
Mitchell said: A visitor. A very foolish man. You'll enjoy being a god, Elizabeth. Blasphemy? No. Let there be food. Kaferian apples. Whenever we visited that planet, I always favoured these. Can you hear me, James? You cannot see me. I'm not there. You follow the right path, James. You'll come to me soon.
Dehner said: I can see him in my mind, too.
Mitchell said: Go to him, Elizabeth, talk to him. Now that you're changing I want you to see just how unimportant they are.
Dehner said: Yes, it just took a little longer for it to happen to me.
Kirk said: You must help me Before it goes too far.
Dehner said: What he's doing is right for him and me.
Kirk said: And for humanity? You're still human
Dehner said: No, I
Kirk said: At least partly, you are, or you wouldn't be here talking to me.
Dehner said: Earth is really unimportant. Before long, we'll be where it would have taken mankind millions of years of learning to reach.
Kirk said: What will Mitchell learn in getting there? Will he know what to do with his power? Will he acquire the wisdom?
Dehner said: Please go back while you still can.
Kirk said: Did you hear him joke about compassion? Above all else, a god needs compassion. Mitchell! Elizabeth.
Dehner said: What do you know about gods?
Kirk said: Then let's talk about humans, about our frailties. As powerful as he gets, he'll have all that inside him.
Dehner said: Go back.
Kirk said: You were a psychiatrist once. You know the ugly, savage things we all keep buried, that none of us dare expose. But he'll dare. Who's to stop him? He doesn't need to care. Be a psychiatrist for one minute longer. What do you see happening to him? What's your prognosis, Doctor?
Dehner said: He's coming.
Kirk said: Then watch him. Hang on to being a human for one minute longer.
Mitchell said: I'm disappointed in you, Elizabeth. (phaser rifle has no effect on him) I've been contemplating the death of an old friend. He deserves a decent burial, at least. (a grave appears in the rock, with a tombstone engraved James R Kirk. A massive boulder on the cliff above is loosened)
Dehner said: Stop it, Gary.
Mitchell said: Morals are for men, not gods.
Kirk said: A god, but still driven by human frailty. Do you like what you see?
Mitchell said: Time to pray, Captain. Pray to me.
Kirk said: To you? Not to both of you?
Mitchell said: Pray that you die easily.
Kirk said: There'll only be one of you in the end. One jealous god. if all this makes a god, or is it making you something else?
Mitchell said: Your last chance, Kirk.
Kirk said: Do you like what you see? Absolute power corrupting absolutely. (Dehner zaps Mitchell, he returns fire, she continues and his eyes return to normal)
Dehner said: Hurry. You haven't much time.
The two men punch and wrestle until Kirk raises a rock over his head
Kirk said: Gary, forgive me.
Mitchell's eyes glow again
Mitchell said: For a moment, James, but your moment is fading.
They both fall into the grave, but Kirk leaps out first, grabs the rifle and brings the boulder down to entomb Mitchell
Dehner said: I'm sorry. You can't know what it's like to be almost a god.
She dies
Kirk said: Enterprise from Captain Kirk, come in.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Captain's log, Star date 1313.8. Add to official losses, Doctor Elizabeth Dehner. Be it noted she gave her life in performance of her duty. Lieutenant Commander Gary Mitchell, same notation. I want his service record to end that way. He didn't ask for what happened to him.
Spock said: I felt for him, too.
Kirk said: I believe there's some hope for you after all, Mister Spock.