The Return of The Archons
Stardate: 3156.2
Original Airdate: 9 Feb, 1967
Scene: Street.
Two men in colonial style clothing, complete with tri-corn hats, are running for their lives. One falls.
Sulu said: O'Neil, we've got to keep going. Come on, get up.
O'Neil said: It's no use. They're everywhere.
Sulu said: The Captain gave us an order. We've got to find some clue.
O'Neil said: It's no use, Mister Sulu. Look, there's one of them. There's another one.
Ominous figures in long red gowns and hoods are slowly advancing on them, carrying staves.
Sulu said: Scouting party to Enterprise.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Come in.
Kirk said: What is it, Mister Sulu?
Scene: Street.
Sulu said: Captain, beam us up quick. Emergency.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Transporter room, lock onto Sulu and O'Neil. Beam up immediately.
Scene: Street.
O'Neil said: We've got to make a run for it. We can't just stand here.
Sulu said: Mister O'Neil, stand tight. They'll beam us up any minute.
O'Neil said: Run, I tell you. We've got to get out of here. You know what they're capable of.
He makes a dash for it.
Sulu said: O'Neil!
One of the robed figures reaches Sulu and points his hollow stave at him. Sulu stiffens, then relaxes with a smile on his face. The transporter takes him away.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: Sulu, what is it? Where's Lieutenant O'Neil?
Sulu said: What? Who?
Kirk said: Lieutenant O'Neil. Where is he?
Sulu said: You. You're not of the Body.
Kirk said: Doctor McCoy.
Scott said: Doctor McCoy, transporter room. Quickly.
Sulu said: You, you did it. They knew we were Archons. These are the clothes they wear, not these.
Throws a bundle at a man, and takes his jacket off.
Kirk said: Sulu, take it easy.
Sulu said: Landru. Landru.
Kirk said: Sit down. (McCoy enters) What happened?
Sulu said: They're wonderful. They're the sweetest, friendliest people in the universe. It's paradise, my friend. Paradise.
Kirk said: Lieutenant O'Neil. Where is he?
Sulu said: Paradise. Paradise.
Captain's Log. Stardate 3156.2. While orbiting planet Beta Three trying to find some trace of the starship Archon that disappeared here a hundred years ago, a search party consisting of two Enterprise officers were sent to the planet below. Mister Sulu has returned, but in a highly agitated mental state. His condition requires I beam down with an additional search detail.
Scene: Street.
The extensive landing party is now in more late 19th Century American style clothes, with bootlace ties and long jackets. Spock has a cape with the hood raised to cover his ears.
Kirk said: Materialisation completed. Kirk out.
A man walks slowly past them, hand on his heart and smile on his face. He bows politely and carries on his way.
Spock said: Odd. The expression on that man's face. The mindlessness. Vacant contentment.
Kirk said: Like Sulu. If everybody on this planet is like him. Let's go.
Bilar said: Joy to you, friends.
Kirk said: Joy to you.
Bilar said: You be strangers. Come for the Festival, are ya?
Kirk said: Yes.
Bilar said: Got a place to sleep it off yet? Go round to Reger's house. He's got rooms. But you'll have to hurry. It's almost the Red Hour.
The town hall clock shows a few minutes to six o'clock.
Kirk said: This Festival, it starts at six o'clock?
Bilar said: Tula, these folks come for the Festival. Your daddy can put them up, can't he?
Tula said: You're from the Valley?
Lindstrom said: We've just arrived.
Tula said: My father will be glad to put you up, though. It's right over there.
The clock strikes the hour, and everybody shouts and goes wild. Clothing gets loosened, women are carries away by men, there are shouts and screams everywhere.
Bilar said: Tula, come!
Windows are broken, fights break out, a woman jumps on Kirk and kisses him.
Kirk said: Let's get out of here.
They run to Reger's house and get in.
Scene: Hallway.
Three older men turn in surprise.
KIRK; I'm sorry to break in on you like this. We didn't expect that kind of a welcome.
Tamar said: Welcome? You are strangers?
Kirk said: Yes, that's right. We're from the valley.
Hacom said: You came for the Festival?
Kirk said: Yes.
Hacom said: Then how come you here?
Lindstrom said: Are you Reger?
Reger said: Yes.
Lindstrom said: You have a daughter named Tula.
Reger said: Yes.
Lindstrom said: Well, you'd better do something. She's outside.
Reger said: I know. It's Festival. It's the will of Landru.
Hacom said: Reger, these are young men. They are not old enough to be excused.
Reger said: They're visitors.
Hacom said: Well, have they no Lawgivers in the Valley? Why be they not at the Festival?
Kirk said: We heard that you might have rooms for us.
Reger said: There. You see, Hacom? They've merely come looking for a place to rest afterwards.
Hacom said: The Red Hour has already struck.
Tamar said: Hacom, these be strangers. The Valley has different ways.
Hacom said: Do you say that Landru is not everywhere?
Tamar said: No, of course not. It's simply they may have different ways.
Reger said: They've come looking for shelter. Can I turn them away? Come, please.
Lindstrom said: But the girl, out there.
Hacom said: She is in festival, as you should be.
Reger said: Come, please. Hurry.
He leads the way upstairs.
Hacom said: The Lawgivers should know.
Tamar said: Surely, Hacom, they already know. Are they not infallible?
Hacom said: You mock them! You mock the Lawgivers. And the strangers are not of the Body. You will see.
Tamar said: But, Hacom
(Hacom leaves the house.
Scene: Room.
Reger shows them into a sparsely furnished room with bunk beds, and turns up the gas light.
Reger said: You can return here at the close of the Festival. It's quiet. You'll have need of rest.
Kirk said: We have no plans to attend the Festival, sir.
Reger said: The hour is struck. You can hear.
Kirk said: I'd like to hear more about this Festival, and Landru.
Reger said: (alarmed) Landru? You ask? You're strange. You scorn Festival? Are you? Are you?
Kirk said: What about Landru?
Outside are scenes of rioting, willful destruction of property, random violence and lust. Reger leaves the group, unseen to us.
Rioter said: Festival! Festival!
Kirk said: Landru. My guess is we have until morning. Let's put the time to good use. Doctor, do atmospheric readings to determine whether there's anything in the air to account for all this. Mister Lindstrom, correlate all that you've seen with any other sociological parallels, if any.
Mister Spock, you and I have some serious thinking to do. When we leave here tomorrow morning, I want to have a plan of action.
Kirk, as sixth man in the group, didn't get a bunk bed or chair to sleep on. When the town clock strikes 6 am, everybody outside stops and then goes on their placid way as if nothing had happened.
Kirk said: Spock. Spock, Lindstrom. Doc.
They hear crying outside, and go to investigate.
Scene: Hallway.
Reger said: No, no it's all over now. It's all over now, child. That's all right. Quiet.
Mccoy said: Excuse me.
Leads the distressed Tula away
Reger said: It's all right. It's all over.
Kirk said: He'll give her a shot. It'll calm her down. Trust us.
Lindstrom said: You didn't even try to bring her back. What kind of father are you?
Reger said: It's Landru's will.
Kirk said: What about Landru? Who is he?
Tamar said: It is true then. You did not attend the Festival last night.
Kirk said: No.
Reger said: Then you're not of the Body. You couldn't be.
Scene: Drawing room.
Mccoy said: She's asleep.
Reger said: Are you, are you Archons?
Kirk said: What if we are?
Reger said: It was said more would follow. If you are indeed
Tamar said: We must hide them. Quickly. The Lawgivers.
Kirk said: We can take care of ourselves.
Tamar said: Landru will know. He will come.
Hacom storms in with two robed figures.
Hacom said: He is the one. He mocked the Lawgivers. I heard him.
Tamar said: No, Hacom. It was a jest.
Hacom said: The others, they were here, but they scorned the Festival. I saw it.
Lawgiver said: Tamar, stand clear.
Tamar said: I hear and obey the voice of Landru.
The Lawgiver kills him with his hollow stave
Lawgiver said: You attacked the Body. You have heard the Word and disobeyed. You will be absorbed.
Kirk said: What do you mean, absorbed?
Hacom said: There, you see? Not of the body.
Lawgiver said: You will be absorbed. The Good is all. Landru is gentle. You will come.
Kirk said: We're not going anywhere.
Lawgiver said: It is the law. You must come.
Kirk said: I said we're not going anywhere.
The two lawgivers turn and face each other.
Spock said: Evidently they're not prepared to deal with out right disobedience. How did you know?
Kirk said: Everything we've seen here so far seems to indicate some sort of compulsive involuntary stimulus to action.
Spock said: Your analysis seems logical.
Lawgiver said: It is clear that you simply did not understand. I will re-phrase. You are ordered to accompany us to the absorption chambers.
Kirk said: Why did you kill that man?
Lawgiver said: Out of order. You will obey. It is the word of Landru.
Kirk said: You tell Landru that we'll come in our own time and that we'll speak to him.
Kirk takes the stave from the lawgiver, and hands it to Spock for inspection.
Lawgiver said: You cannot. It is Landru.
Hacom said: Landru.
Hacom leaves quickly
Spock said: Fascinating. This is merely a hollow tube, Captain. No mechanism.
Reger said: They're communing. We have time. Come with me.
Kirk said: Where to?
Reger said: To a place I know. You'll be safe there, but we must hurry. Landru will come.
Scene: Street.
They hurry slowly, smiling and bowing to passers by.
Kirk said: Quite a festival they had.
Reger said: Peace.
Kirk said: What do you make of all this?
Spock said: Totally illogical. Yesterday, without apparent cause or reason, they wrought total havoc. Yet today, now
Kirk said: Now they're back to normal.
Bilar said: Morning, friends.
All said: Good morning, Bilar.
Lindstrom said: Your daughter. That's the man.
Reger said: No, it wasn't Bilar. It was Landru. Let's hurry, we haven't much time.
But a few paces further on, the passers by all stop.
Reger said: It's too late. Look.
Kirk said: What is it?
Reger said: Landru. He's summoning the body.
Spock said: Telepathy, Captain.
The people pick up weapons from the debris in the street.
Kirk said: Phasers on stun. Which way, Reger?
Reger said: Perhaps through there, but Landru
Kirk said: We'll handle Landru, Just get us out of this.
They get trapped in an alley
Kirk said: I don't want to hurt them. Warn them back.
Reger said: They're in the Body. It's Landru.
Kirk said: Phasers on stun, wide field. Fire.
They drop the first wave, but more come.
Kirk said: Fire.
They get down the alley
Kirk said: Security.
Mccoy said: Captain.
Kirk said: Lieutenant O'Neil. He's one of our men.
Reger said: Not anymore. He's been absorbed.
Kirk said: Bring him along.
Reger said: The Lieutenant is one of them. When he wakes, Landru will find us through him. Leave him there. He's our enemy. He's been absorbed.
Lindstrom said: Captain, now that we've got Lieutenant O'Neil, let's beam up out of here.
Kirk said: We still don't know what's happened to the Archons. Which way? Bring him along.
Scene: Chamber.
Reger leads them into a building made of massive stones. He goes over to a corner and unwraps a flat panel, which gives off light.
Mccoy said: Put him over there.
Kirk said: A lighting panel.
Spock said: Amazing in this culture.
Reger said: Comes from a time before Landru.
Kirk said: Before Landru? How long ago was that?
Reger said: Nobody knows positively. Some say as long ago as six thousand years.
Spock said: It took a very advanced technology to construct a device like this. Inconsistent with this environment
Kirk said: But not inconsistent with what we've seen. Security.
The two spare members of the group go to stand guard.
Kirk said: Those staffs. Hollow tubes. Antennae for some sort of broadcast power. What is it, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Strong power generations, Captain. Near here, but radiating in all directions.
Mccoy said: He'll be coming around soon, Captain.
Reger said: He must not. He's been absorbed.
Kirk said: Absorbed?
Reger said: The Body absorbs its enemies. It only kills when it has to. When the first Archons came, they were free, out of control, opposing the will of Landru. Many were killed, many more were absorbed. When he regains consciousness, Landru will find us through him. And if the others come
Kirk said: What others?
Reger said: Those like you and me, who resist Landru.
Spock said: An underground? How are you organised?
Reger said: In threes. Myself, Tamar, who's dead now, and one other.
Kirk said: Who?
Reger said: I don't know. Tamar was my contact.
Mccoy said: Give me a decision, Captain. He's coming out of it.
Reger said: He must not regain consciousness. He'll destroy us all. He's of the Body.
Kirk said: Give him a shot. Keep him asleep. Reger, I want some answers. This underground. If Landru is so powerful, how do you survive?
Reger said: I don't know, Captain. Some of us escape the directives. Not many, but a few. It was that way when the first Archons came.
Kirk said: The Archons. Tell me about them.
Reger said: They had invaded the Body, but they resisted the will of Landru. You see, Landru had pulled them down from the skies.
Kirk said: Pulled them down from the skies? A starship? Mister Spock, those power readings you took, are they?
Spock said: Powerful enough to destroy a starship? Affirmative.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise, come in.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Captain, we're under attack. There are heat beams of some kind coming up from the planet surface.
Kirk said: Status report.
Scott said: Our shields are holding, but they're taking all our power.
Scene: Chamber.
Scott said: If we try to warp out or move on impulse, we'll lose our shields and burn up like a cinder.
Kirk said: Orbit condition.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Checking. We're going down, Captain. Unless we can get those beams off us so we can use our engines, we're due to hit atmosphere in less than twelve hours.
Scene: Chamber.
Kirk said: Keep your shield up. Do everything you can to maintain orbit. We'll try and locate the source of the beam and stop it here.
Scott said: Impossible to break away. I've tried the emergency bypass circuits but they haven't been effective.
The conversation ends in a crackle of static.
Spock said: Captain.
Kirk said: What is it?
Spock said: Sensor beams, very strong. We're being probed. In this direction.
Reger said: Landru.
Spock said: Block them out.
Spock said: Too strong, Captain. Can't be blocked.
Reger said: (adopting a prayerful posture) Oh.
The image of a tall, elegant man draped in robes appears against a wall.
Landru said: I am Landru.
Spock said: Projection, Captain. Unreal.
Kirk said: But beautiful, Mister Spock, with no apparatus at this end.
Landru said: You have come as destroyers. You bring an infection.
Kirk said: You are holding my ship. I demand that you release it.
Landru said: You have come to a world without hate, without fear, without conflict. No war, no disease, no crime. None of the ancient evils. Landru seeks tranquillity. Peace for all. The universal good.
Kirk said: We mean you no harm. Ours is a mission of peace and good will.
Landru said: The good must transcend the evil. It shall be done. So it has been since the beginning.
Spock said: He doesn't hear you, Captain.
Lindstrom said: (drawing his phaser) Maybe he'll hear this.
Kirk said: Put that away. Landru, listen to me.
Landru said: You will be absorbed. Your individuality will merge into the unity of the good, and in your submergence into the common being of the Body, you will find contentment and fulfillment. You will experience the absolute good.
Reger said: Oh.
A sound permeates the room, and knocks everyone out.
Captain's log, stardate 3157.4. The Enterprise, still under attack by some sort of heat rays from the surface of Beta Three, is now being commanded by Engineering Officer Scott. The shore party has been taken by the creature called Landru.
Scene: Prison.
Kirk wakes up in a chamber very like the previous one, constructed of large stone blocks, but without the furniture. A stone door has no handle on the inside. His communicator and phaser are gone.
Kirk said: Mister Spock. Wake up. Mister Lesley.
Spock said: Where's Doctor McCoy?
Kirk said: He was gone when I woke up, along with the other guard and Mister O'Neil.
Spock said: I should say they've been here and been removed.
Kirk said: Where is here?
Spock said: Evidently a maximum security establishment. Are you armed?
Kirk said: No. All our phasers are gone. I checked. That's locked.
Lindstrom said: Oh, does my head ache.
Spock said: The natural result of being subjected to a hypersonic.
Lindstrom said: Oh, is that what it was?
Spock said: Sound waves. Stronger, they might have killed us. As it was, they merely rendered us unconscious.
Kirk said: Enough analysis. Let's think of a way to get out of here. What about the Lawgivers' inability to cope with the unexpected?
Spock said: We shouldn't depend on that happening again, Captain. In a society as well organised as this one seems to be, I cannot conceive of such an oversight going uncorrected. Interesting, however. Their reaction to your defiance was remarkably similar to the reaction of a computer when fed insufficient or contradictory data.
Kirk said: Are you suggesting the Lawgivers are mere computers, that they aren't human?
Spock said: Quite human, Captain. It's simply that all the facts are not yet in. There are gaps.
The door opens, and a Lawgiver escorts McCoy and O'Neil in, then leaves them again.
Kirk said: Doc. How?
Mccoy said: Hello, friend. We were told to wait here.
Kirk said: Doc!
Mccoy said: Can I help you, friend?
Kirk said: Don't you know me?
Mccoy said: We all know one another and Landru.
Spock said: Like Sulu.
Kirk said: Think, man. The Enterprise. The ship. Remember?
Mccoy said: You speak very strangely, friend. Are you from away?
Kirk said: You do remember!
Mccoy said: Ask Landru. He remembers. He knows and he watches. You are strange. Are you not of the Body?
The door opens again, and a Lawgiver points his hollow stave at Kirk.
Lawgiver said: Come.
Kirk said: No.
Lawgiver said: Then you will die.
Spock said: You've been corrected, Captain. You'd better go.
Kirk said: All right. Work on Bones. See if you can't
Lawgiver said: Come.
Kirk leaves with the Lawgivers.
Spock said: Doctor McCoy, what will happen to him?
Mccoy said: He goes to joy, peace, and tranquillity. He goes to meet Landru. Happiness is to all of us, blessed by Landru.
Scene: Absorption chamber.
Kirk is secured to the wall by his wrists. A stout bald man comes in and relieves the Lawgiver on duty.
Marplon said: I am Marplon. It is your hour. Happy communing.
Lawgiver said: With thanks. Happy communing.
Marplon steps into the control booth.
Scene: Prison.
Spock is attempting a mind meld on McCoy.
Lindstrom said: Well?
Spock said: Impossible. He's under extremely powerful control.
Lindstrom said: Are we just going to stand here?
Spock said: Little else we can do, unless you can think of a way to get through that door.
Lindstrom said: Well, this is simply ridiculous. A bunch of stone age characters running around in robes.
Spock said: And apparently commanding powers far beyond our comprehension. Not simple, not ridiculous. Very, very dangerous.
The door opens and this time the stave is pointed at Spock.
Lawgiver said: You. Come.
Scene: Absorption Chamber.
Kirk is released and greets Spock with an inane smile on his face.
Kirk said: Joy to you, friend. Peace and contentment will fill you. You will know the peace of Landru.
Kirk leaves, and Spock is fastened to the wall for his treatment. The lights waver as the Lawgivers leave Marplon to his work.
Marplon said: Have no fear, friend. The effect is harmless. My name is Marplon. I was too late to save your first two friends. They have been absorbed. Beware of them.
Spock is released.
Spock said: What about the Captain?
Marplon said: He is unharmed, unchanged. I am the third man in Reger's triad. We have been awaiting your return.
Spock said: We are not Archons, Marplon.
Marplon said: Whatever you may call yourselves, you are in fulfillment of prophecy. We ask your help.
Spock said: Where is Reger?
Marplon said: He will join us. He is immune to absorption. Hurry. We have not much time.
Spock said: Who is Landru?
Marplon said: I cannot answer your questions now. Landru, he will hear. Here are your weapons. You may need them.
Lawgivers enter
Marplon said: Behave as you saw your Captain behave. It is done.
Spock said: Joy be with you. Peace and contentment.
Scene: Prison.
Spock said: Captain.
Kirk said: Peace and tranquillity to you. (in a whisper) Are you all right?
Spock said: Quite all right. Be careful of Doctor McCoy.
Kirk said: I understand. Landru.
Spock said: I am formulating a theory, Captain.
Kirk said: And?
Spock said: Not here. The doctor.
Mccoy said: You speak in strange whispers. This is not the way of Landru.
Kirk said: Joy be yours, and tranquillity, my friend.
Mccoy said: And peace and harmony. Are you of the Body?
Kirk said: The Body is one.
Mccoy said: Blessed be the Body, and health to all of its parts.
Kirk said: My friends. (guiding Red and Spock away to a quiet corner) What is your theory, Mister Spock?
Spock said: This is a soulless society, Captain. It has no spirit, no spark. All is indeed peace and tranquillity. The peace of the factory, the tranquillity of the machine. All parts working in unison.
Kirk said: And when something unexplained happens, their routine is disrupted.
Spock said: Until new orders are received. The question is, who gives those orders?
Kirk said: Landru.
Spock said: There is no Landru, Captain, not in the human sense.
Kirk said: You're thinking the same thing I am. Mister Spock, the plug must be pulled.
Spock said: Sir?
Kirk said: Landru must die.
Spock said: Captain, our Prime Directive of non-interference.
Kirk said: That refers to a living, growing culture. Do you think this one is?
Marplon and Reger enter.
Mccoy said: Joy to you all, friends.
Marplon said: It is the gift of Landru. (goes over to Kirk) I've brought your signalling devices. You may need them.
Kirk said: What we need is more information about Landru. (Reger shakes his head) You said you wanted us to help you.
Marplon said: The prophecy says
Kirk said: Never mind what the prophecy says. If you want to be liberated from Landru, we'll need your help.
Spock said: Captain.
Mccoy said: You're not of the Body!
Kirk said: Peace
Mccoy said: You're not!
Kirk said: to you, friend. Joy and tranquillity.
Mccoy said: Lawgivers!
Peace.
Mccoy said: Lawgivers! (trying to strangle Kirk) Traitor! Traitors! Traitors!
Spock deals with O'Neil
Kirk said: Doc, I don't want to hurt you.
Mccoy said: Traitors!
Kirk manages to get a sleeper hold on McCoy, and he passes out
Kirk said: Spock.
More lawgivers enter, and are overpowered. Spock uses a punch to knock his one out.
Kirk said: Isn't that somewhat old-fashioned? Robes.
They undress the lawgivers and put on their robes.
Kirk said: Where is Landru?
Marplon said: No, no.
Kirk said: Where do we find him?
Marplon said: We do not see him. We hear him, in the Hall of Audiences.
Kirk said: In this building?
Marplon said: (reluctantly) Yes.
Kirk said: You're going to take us there. (the two men are terrified at the prospect) Spock, call the Enterprise.
Marplon said: No.
Kirk said: Snap out of it! Start acting like men.
Spock said: Spock to Enterprise. status report.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Mister Spock, I've been trying to reach you.
Scene: Prison.
Spock said: Report, Scott.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: The orbit's still decaying. I give it six hours, more or less.
Scene: Prison.
Scott said: Those heat beams are still on us. You've got to cut them off, Mister Spock, or we'll cook.
Kirk said: Scotty, stand by. We're doing the best we can. How's Mister Sulu?
Scott said: He's peaceful enough, but he worries me.
Kirk said: Put a guard on him.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: On Sulu?
Scene: Prison.
Kirk said: That's an order. Watch him. Captain out.
Spock said: Captain. (gives him a phaser)
KIRK; All right. About Landru.
Reger said: There was war. Convulsions. The world was destroying itself. Landru was our leader. He saw the truth. He changed the world. He took us back, back to a simple time. A time of peace and tranquillity.
Kirk said: What happened to him?
Marplon said: He's still alive. He is here now. He sees. He hears. We have destroyed ourselves. Please, no more.
Kirk said: You said you wanted freedom. It's time you learned that freedom is never a gift. It has to be earned. Come on. We're going to find Landru.
Reger said: No, no, I was wrong! I submit, I bear myself to the will of Landru!
Kirk said: It's too late for that.
Reger said: No! Lawgivers! Help! Help me!
Spock neck-pinches him.
Kirk said: All right, it's up to you. Take us to Landru.
Scene: Hall of Audiences.
outside the door
Marplon said: This is the Hall of Audiences.
Kirk said: Open it.
Marplon said: But this is Landru.
Kirk said: Open it.
Marplon makes a deep bow, and the door opens outwards. They enter the empty room.
Marplon said: Landru speaks here.
Kirk and Spock remove the robes and leave the staves propped by the open door.
Kirk said: Landru! Landru. We are the Archons. We are the Archons. We've come to speak. We are the Archons. We want to talk to you.
The projection appears on the far wall.
Marplon said: Landru! He comes!
Landru said: Despite my efforts to save you, you have invaded the Body and you are causing great harm.
Kirk said: We have no intention of causing harm.
Landru said: Obliteration is necessary. The infection is strong. For the good of the Body, you must die. It is a great sorrow.
Kirk said: We do not intend to die.
Landru said: All who saw you, all who know of your presence here must be excised. The memory of the Body will be cleansed.
Kirk said: Listen to me.
Spock said: Useless, Captain. A projection.
Kirk said: Yes, Mister Spock. Let's have a look at the projector.
They both use their phasers to blast a hole in the wall. As expected, there are nice clean big computer boxes in a room beyond. Lights are flashing and blinking, blinking and flashing.
Kirk said: Of course. It had to be. Landru.
Spock said: A machine. This whole society is a machine's concept of perfection. Peace, harmony.
Kirk said: But no soul.
Landru said: I am Landru. You have intruded.
Kirk said: Pull out its plug, Mister Spock.
Before they can press the buttons on their phasers, there is a high-pitched sound
Landru said: Your devices have been neutralised. So it shall be with you. I am Landru.
Kirk said: Landru died six thousand years ago.
Landru said: I am Landru. I am he. All that he was, I am. His experience, his knowledge.
Kirk said: But not his wisdom. He may have programmed you, but he could not have given you a soul. You are a machine.
Landru said: Your statement is irrelevant. You will be obliterated. The good of the Body is the Prime Directive.
Spock said: The good of the Body, Captain. That's the key.
Kirk said: Yes. What is the good?
Landru said: I am Landru.
Kirk said: Landru is dead. You are a machine. A question has been put to you. Answer it.
Landru said: The good is the harmonious continuation of the Body. The good is peace, tranquillity. The good of the Body is the directive.
Kirk said: Then I put it to you that you have disobeyed the Prime Directive. You are harmful to the Body.
Landru said: The body is. It exists. It is healthy.
Kirk said: The body is dying. You are destroying it.
Landru said: Do you ask a question?
Kirk said: What have you done to do justice to the full potential of every individual of the Body?
Landru said: Insufficient data.
Kirk said: Without freedom of choice, there is no creativity. Without creativity, there is no life. The body dies. The fault is yours.
Spock said: Are you aiding the body, or are you destroying it?
Landru said: (sounding very machine-like, Davros-like) I am not programmed to answer that question.
Lawgiver said: Landru! Guide us, Landru!
Kirk draws his phaser.
Spock said: Not necessary, Captain. They have no guidance. Possibly for the first time in their lives.
Kirk said: Landru, answer the question.
Landru said: Peace, order, and tranquillity are maintained. The body lives, but I reserve creativity to me.
Spock said: Then the body dies. Creativity is necessary for the health of the Body.
Landru said: This is impossible.
Marplon said: Is this truly Landru?
Spock said: What's left of him, after he built and programmed this machine six thousand years ago.
Kirk said: You must create the good. That is the will of Landru, nothing else.
Landru said: But there is evil.
Kirk said: Then the evil must be destroyed. That is the Prime Directive. And you are the evil.
Landru said: I think. I live.
Kirk said: You are the evil. The evil must be destroyed. Fulfill the Prime Directive.
Smoke starts to rise from the base of the main computer bank.
Kirk said: You
Landru said: Landru, help me!
Kirk said: are the evil. Fulfill the Prime Directive.
Landru said: Help me! Help me! Help me! Help me!
Fire breaks out and things go bang. The machine dies. Now Kirk and Spock step briefly into the computer room.
Kirk said: Well, Marplon, you're on your own now. I hope you're up to it. (to Lawgivers) And you can get rid of those robes. If I were you, I'd start look for another job. Kirk to Enterprise. Come in.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Captain, are you all right?
Scene: Hall of Audiences.
Kirk said: What about the ship?
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: The heat rays are gone, Captain, and Mister Sulu's back to normal.
Sulu said: Relieving you.
Scene: Hall of Audiences.
Kirk said: Excellent, Scotty. Stand by to beam up landing party. Let's go and see how the others are doing. Marplon can finish up here.
Captain's log, stardate 3158.7 The Enterprise is preparing to leave Beta Three in Star system C One Eleven. Sociologist Lindstrom is remaining behind with a party of experts who will help restore the planet's culture to a human form.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Marvellous.
Kirk said: What?
Spock said: The late Landru, Captain. A marvellous feat of engineering. A computer capable of directing the lives of millions of human beings.
Kirk said: But only a machine, Mister Spock. The original Landru programmed it with all his knowledge but he couldn't give it his wisdom, his compassion, his understanding, his soul, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Predictably metaphysical. I prefer the concrete, the graspable, the provable.
Kirk said: You'd make a splendid computer, Mister Spock.
Spock said: That is very kind of you, Captain.
Uhura said: Captain, Mister Lindstrom from the surface.
Kirk said: Yes, Lindstrom.
Lindstrom said: I just wanted to say goodbye, Captain.
Kirk said: How's it going?
Lindstrom said: Couldn't be better. Already this morning, we've had half a dozen domestic quarrels and two genuine knock-down drag-outs. It may not be paradise, but it's certainly human.
Kirk said: Sounds most promising. Good luck.
Spock said: How often mankind has wished for a world as peaceful and secure as the one Landru provided.
Kirk said: Yes. And we never got it. Just lucky, I guess.