Catspaw
Stardate: 3018.2
Original Airdate: 27 Oct, 1967
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Still no response, sir.
Kirk said: No, keep it open. I don't like this. Nothing since the first check in. Scott and Sulu should've contacted us again a half an hour ago.
Spock said: They may have nothing to report. Our sensors indicate no life forms except our landing party.
Kirk said: Both those men are well aware of landing party procedure. They should've checked in with us by now.
Uhura said: Contact established, Captain.
Jackson said: Jackson to Enterprise.
Kirk said: Enterprise. Kirk here.
Jackson said: One to beam up, Enterprise.
Kirk said: One? Jackson, where are Scott and Sulu?
Jackson said: I'm ready to beam up, sir.
Kirk said: Jackson!
Uhura said: I'm sorry. I can't clear it, Captain.
Kirk said: Notify Transporter room to prepare to beam up one member of the landing party. Then have Doctor McCoy report to me in the Transporter room on the double.
Uhura said: Yes, sir.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kyle said: Ready, sir.
Kirk said: Energise.
Mccoy said: What's on, Jim?
Kirk said: Trouble. (one man materialises) Jackson, where are the others?
The man falls over and off the transporter platform.
Mccoy said: The man is dead.
Korob said: (from the mouth of Jackson) Captain Kirk, can you hear me? There is a curse on your ship. Leave this place or you will all die.
Captain's Log, stardate 3018.2. Crewman Jackson is dead and there are no apparent physical causes. Mister Scott and Mister Sulu are still out of touch on the planet below. Leaving Assistant Chief Engineer DeSalle in command of the Enterprise, I'm beaming down to the planet's surface to find my two missing crewmen and discover what killed Jackson.
Scene: Planet surface.
It's rocky, and misty. Very spooky.
Kirk said: Odd. Our probe data didn't indicate fog.
Spock said: No cloud formations, no bodies of water, no changes in surface temperature. Under these conditions, fog is highly unlikely, Captain. According to our transporter co-ordinates this is the exact location from which Jackson was beamed up to the ship.
They step down carefully into the mist swirling along the path.
Kirk said: Readings, Mister Spock.
Spock said: No indications of. A moment, Captain. Picking up life form readings. Twenty four degrees mark seven. Range one thirty seven point one six metres. Multiple readings, Captain.
Mccoy said: Scott and Sulu?
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise.
Uhura said: Enterprise. Lieutenant Uhura here.
Kirk said: What are the ship's sensors reading now, Lieutenant?
Scene: Bridge.
Desalle said: Report, Mister.
Chekov said: I am only picking up physical impulses from the three of them. As far as instruments can make out, there is nothing else down there that's alive.
Desalle said: Relay, Lieutenant.
Uhura said: Captain, we are only registering on you. (static) Captain? Captain Kirk?
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: Lieutenant, can you hear me?
Mccoy said: Whatever this stuff is, it's getting thicker. Suppose that has anything to do with the interference?
Kirk said: I don't know. There has to be some explanation for the fact that the ship's sensors can't register anything but us, while we're picking up readings of multiple life forms. Are they still there, Spock?
Spock said: No change, Captain.
Kirk said: Stand-by alert.
They check their phasers.
Mccoy said: Listen. Now, what do you think that
Kirk said: Quiet.
There's an eerie wailing, then the images of, well, the Three Witches from Macbeth, appear.
Witch 1 said: Captain Kirk!
Witch 2 said: Captain Kirk!
Witch 3 said: Captain Kirk!
Kirk said: Who are you?
Witch 1 said: Go back!
Witch 2 said: Go back!
Witch 3 said: Go back! Remember the curse!
Witch 1 said: Wind shall rise.
Witch 2 said: And fog descend.
Witch 3 said: So leave here, all, or meet your end.
Maniacal cackling as they vanish. 
Kirk said: Spock. Comment?
Spock said: Very bad poetry, Captain.
Kirk said: A more useful comment, Mister Spock.
Spock said: What we've just seen is not real.
Kirk said: That's useful.
Spock said: However, on azimuth twenty four, at just over one hundred metres, there are definitely life forms. Erratic, confused, but definitely registering.
Kirk said: That's where we're going.
A strong gust of wind blows them back.
Mccoy said: That was a pretty real illusion, Mister Spock.
They walk on again.
Mccoy said: Jim.
There is a castle hewn from the local rock, and a door is opening.
Spock said: This is the source of the life form readings, Captain. They're inside, somewhere.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise. Enterprise, come in.
Mccoy said: Is this how we lost contact with the first landing party?
Kirk said: What about it, Spock? Does this structure have anything to do with communicator interference?
Spock said: I would say not, Captain. There's no indication of anything that would cause such interference.
Kirk said: And it doesn't pick up on our ship's sensors.
Spock said: Nor do our sensors register the life forms inside.
Kirk said: Could it be exerting a force field of some kind that cuts into our sensor scan.
Mccoy said: Then it would affect Spock's tricorder too, wouldn't it?
KIRK; Would it? I wonder.
They approach the edifice cautiously, then enter.
Scene: Castle.
They are greeted by an angry, spitting black cat, wearing a large gem on its collar. It runs off, tail bristling.
Mccoy said: Three witches, what appears to be a castle and a black cat.
Kirk said: If we weren't missing two officers and a third one dead I'd say someone was playing an elaborate trick or treat on us.
Spock said: Trick or treat, Captain?
Kirk said: Yes, Mister Spock. You'd be a natural. I'll explain it to you one day. Shall we have a look around?
Spock said: That would seem to be in order.
Kirk said: (sending them off in different directions) Bones. Spock.
Scene: Bridge.
Chekov said: They're gone, Mister DeSalle. The captain and the others simply stopped registering.
Desalle said: Check for malfunctions.
Chekov said: I did, sir, as soon as it happened.
Uhura said: Mister DeSalle, that's exactly what happened to Mister Scott and his party. They, they just disappeared.
Desalle said: Nobody just disappears. They may have encountered a magnetic field or some other obstruction. Mister Chekov, recalibrate your sensors. If you need help
Chekov said: I can do it, sir. I'm not that green.
Desalle said: Lieutenant Uhura, continue in your efforts to break through that static interference.
Uhura said: Aye, aye, sir.
Desalle said: We know they're down there. I want them found.
Scene: Castle.
The main door slams shut behind them.
Kirk said: Straight ahead, Mister Spock?
Spock said: The readings would so indicate.
Unlike a real castle, this one is all corridors at present.
Mccoy said: Dust, cobwebs. Halloween is right.
The black cat is ahead of them when the stone floor gives way and dumps the trio into 
Scene: Dungeon.
Reasonably well equipped out of Edgar Allen Poe - rack, skeleton in iron cage - and our heroes chained to the wall.
Kirk said: Spock. Are you all right?
Spock said: Yes. I am undamaged, Captain.
Kirk said: Bones? (sees another skeleton chained to the wall) Doc?
Mccoy said: You were saying something about trick or treat.
Kirk said: Dungeons, curses, skeletons and iron maidens. They're all Earth manifestations. Why?
Spock said: I do not know, Captain, but these things do exist. They are real.
Mccoy said: Could this be an Earth parallel development of some sort?
Kirk said: None of this parallels any human development. It's more like a human nightmare.
Spock said: As if someone knew what it was that terrifies man most on an instinctive level.
Kirk said: Ghost stories, ogres, demons. The whole
Footsteps, then the dungeon door opens. Down the steps walk - Scott and Sulu! as if in a trance.
Kirk said: Scotty, Sulu. Scotty. Put down the phaser. Scotty!
Mccoy said: They appear to be drugged, Jim. Look at their eyes. Hardly blink at all.
Spock said: Neither did Jackson just before he collapsed.
Kirk said: These two are alive. Scotty, do you hear me? Sulu, do you know who I am? What's happened to you?
Sulu holds up a very big key ring
Mccoy said: They're going to release us.
Sulu undoes their shackles and they start to leave. They begin to fight, but suddenly
Scene: Drawing room.
Korob said: Stop!
Red plush furnishings and a bald man with a little beard, wearing a golden gown, is sitting on what is effectively a throne on a raised dais.
Kirk said: Whoever you are, you've proven your skill at creating illusion. Now I want to know why and what you've done to my men.
Korob said: Where did your race get this ridiculous predilection for resistance? You examine any object, you question everything. Is it not enough to accept what is?
Kirk said: Not when one of my men is dead because of it and two others turned into mindless
Korob said: NO, not mindless. These two are merely controlled, Captain Kirk. Oh, yes, we know who you are. All of you. (to the cat) Don't we, my precious?
Kirk said: Who are you? Why did you bring us here?
Korob said: My name is Korob. And as for bringing you here, it was you who quite contrarily insisted upon coming. You were warned to stay away.
Kirk said: Why? For what reason? Why all the mumbo-jumbo?
Korob said: Mumbo-jumbo? (the cat meows as if explaining) Oh! Oh, no, I assure you it was not that, Captain.
Spock said: Mapping expeditions have charted this solar system before. There never have been any life forms on Pyris Seven.
Korob said: It is of no importance that we are not native to this planet. (meow) Oh! I'm told that I've been an inattentive host, gentlemen. You will join me for something to refresh yourselves.
He leaves his throne and the cat follows.
Mccoy said: That cat.
Kirk said: That cat.
Spock said: There are ancient Earth legends about wizards and their familiars.
Mccoy said: Familiars?
Spock said: Demons in animal forms sent by Satan to serve the wizard.
Kirk said: Superstition.
Spock said: I do not create the legend, Captain. I merely report it.
Korob said: You are the different one, Mister Spock. You do not think like the others. There are no colours to your patterns of logic. There's only black and white. You see all this around you, yet you do not believe.
Mccoy said: He doesn't know about trick or treat.
Korob said: I do not understand that reference, therefore it also is of no importance. Gentlemen, I can be most hospitable.
He waves his wand and the table is loaded with food.
Spock said: Ingenious.
Korob said: Do be seated.
Mccoy said: We're not hungry.
Korob said: But I insist.
They seat themselves.
Kirk said: All right, Korob. What do you want from us?
Korob said: For the moment, merely that you eat and enjoy. Oh, Doctor, do try the wine. You'll find it excellent.
Kirk said: You'll find us most unco-operative unless you start explaining yourself.
Korob said: Hopefully I can change that attitude.
The food vanishes and their plates are now filled with cut gemstones.
Mccoy said: These look real.
Korob said: They are, I assure you. Diamonds, rubies, emeralds, sapphires. All the crystalline forms that you cherish above all things. A fortune of them for each of you if you leave here without further inquiry.
Kirk said: We could manufacture a ton of these on our ship. They mean nothing to us.
Korob said: Valueless? I don't understand. I read
Kirk said: Whatever it is you read, you read it wrong. As for leaving, we'll leave when we're ready.
Korob said: You are most unpredictable. Perhaps I have made a small mistake. Nevertheless, you have passed the tests.
Mccoy said: Tests?
Korob said: Yes. Our analysis of you may have been in some small way in error, but you were warned to stay away and yet you came to save your comrades. That proves loyalty. Your bravery was tested and you did not frighten. And despite my failure with these bright baubles, I perceive that you cannot be bribed. In many ways you are quite admirable. (meow) Quite right. Go at once, yes.
The cat leaves, and a few moments later a dark haired woman in a loose black dress enters the room. She is wearing a pendant like the cat's collar.
Korob said: Gentlemen, my colleague. Sylvia.
Sylvia said: Doctor McCoy, Mister Spock and Captain Kirk. You wanted to know what we did to your men. Actually it's a simple matter for us to probe the minds of creatures like yourself.
Spock said: Mind probing? Hypnosis?
Sylvia said: You like to think of yourselves as complex creatures, but you're flawed. One gains admittance to your minds through many levels. You have too many to keep track of yourselves. There are unguarded entrances to any human mind.
Spock said: Telepathy?
Spock said: Not entirely, no. Telepathy doesn't imply control and I assure you that I have full control over your friends.
Kirk gets the phaser off Scott by throwing gems in his face.
Kirk said: Don't move! (hands it to Spock) Cover them. Now, I want the rest of our weapons and our equipment. I want some answers.
Sylvia said: Put that weapon down! Captain, it seems so foolish of you to insist on demonstrations. (She holds up a model Enterprise on a chain) In the mythology of your race this is called sympathetic magic. Jackson, the crew member who returned to the ship. You wondered what killed him. I made an image of him. In the essence of my thoughts the image was Jackson. And when I killed the image and knew that it was dead, he died.
Kirk said: You can't think a man to death.
Sylvia said: Your communicator. (it appears on the table) Now, signal your ship.
She moves the model into a candle flame.
Korob said: Don't. Sylvia, don't.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise. Come in. Come in.
Scene: Bridge.
The ship is at Red Alert.
Kirk said: Enterprise. From Captain Kirk. Come in.
Uhura said: Captain, are you all right? Where are you? Are the others all right, sir?
Scene: Drawing room.
Kirk said: Never mind about us. What's happening up there?
Scene: Bridge.
Desalle said: The temperature, sir. It keeps rising. Reading, Mister.
Chekov said: It's up sixty degrees in the past thirty seconds. We're burning up, sir.
Scene: Drawing room.
Kirk said: DeSalle, channel bypass power into your heat dissipation units.
Desalle said: We've already done it, Captain. It had no effect. We're cooking up here.
Kirk said: All right. I'll handle it down here. Kirk out. (taking the model from Sylvia and the phaser from Spock) You've won.
Sylvia said: You can relax now, Captain. Your ship is safe.
Scene: Bridge.
Chekov said: Temperature is almost back to normal, dropping down fast.
Desalle said: Lieutenant, try to raise the captain again.
Uhura said: Enterprise to Captain Kirk. Come in, please. Enterprise to Captain Kirk. Acknowledge. We've lost him again, Mister DeSalle.
Scene: Drawing room.
Korob said: Captain, you've seen something of our science. Now tell us about yours.
Kirk said: You seem to be singing a different tune. I'd rather know more about yours. You call it magic, you call it science. It seems unrelated to both of them.
Korob said: What would you name it, Captain?
Kirk said: I wouldn't attempt to name it, but you seem to do with your mind what we do with tools. You alter matter, move it about by telekinesis.
Korob said: Yes, we can change the molecular structure
Sylvia said: Korob, you talk too much.
Mccoy said: You kept Scott and Sulu as catspaws to lure us down here. How'd you know we'd come?
Korob said: Oh, we didn't have to know. They knew.
Sylvia said: Enough of this! You will tell us what we want to know.
Kirk said: It's too late for threats. You let me contact the ship. How long do you think it will it be before a search party arrives?
Korob said: Some time, Captain. Quite some time.
The model Enterprise is encased in a block of perspex.
Korob said: There will be no search party, Captain Kirk. An impenetrable force field around your ship, Captain. It will not hinder orbit, but your people are prisoners within it.
Scene: Bridge.
Chekov said: It's some kind of a force field, sir, but not like any other I've ever heard of before. It's not coming from anywhere. It's simply all around us.
Scene: Drawing room.
Sylvia said: I would advise you to co-operate, Captain. Forcible extraction of the information we wish from you is not complicated, but it is extremely painful and it has a certain draining effect.
Kirk said: We have nothing to discuss.
Korob said: Take them to their cell. (gives the phaser to Scott)
Sylvia said: Wait. The doctor will stay. Your turn will be next, Captain. It makes little difference. Take them out of here.
Scene: Bridge.
Desalle said: Wave length analysis, Mister Chekov?
Chekov said: It will not analyse, sir.
Desalle said: All right, but it's there and it's real. If it's real, it can be affected. Engineering, stand by to divert all power systems to the outer hull. Prepare impulse engines for generation of maximum heat directed as ordered. Maybe we can't break it, but I'll bet you credits to navy beans we can put a dent in it.
Scene: Dungeon.
Kirk and Spock are shackled to the wall again.
Kirk said: How long has it been?
Spock said: Twenty two minutes, seventeen seconds.
Kirk said: Thanks. I wonder what they're doing to Doc.
Spock said: I'm sure we'll find out shortly. Jim, all of these things that we've seen. To an Earthman like yourself, they must seem quite familiar.
Kirk said: Familiar. Startling. Not rational.
Spock said: Precisely. I refer you to the psychological theory of the racial subconscious. The universal myths, symbols.
Kirk said: Ghosts, witches.
Spock said: And dungeons and castles and black cats. They all belong to the twilight world of consciousness.
Kirk said: They tried to tap our conscious mind.
Spock said: And they missed. They reached basically only the subconscious. Korob seemed puzzled by your reaction to the environment he'd provided.
Kirk said: He expected me to react as though it were all normal. Well, he admitted that they weren't native to this planet.
Spock said: And not to have a knowledge of our scientific methods is most unlikely for any life form we've met in this galaxy.
Kirk said: They refer to us as creatures, as though we were some species that they were unfamiliar with. If we're creatures, I wonder what they're really like.
Spock said: Evidently something totally alien in all respects.
Kirk said: Agreed. Totally alien. And I don't like hostile strangers showing such an acute interest in our galaxy, our world, Spock. Not at all like friendly visitors. We're going to have to stop them, cold. But at the moment
Spock said: I, too, am at a loss at this time to suggest a course of action.
The door opens and McCoy enters with Scott and Sulu. He has been zombified. Sulu unchains Kirk.
Kirk said: Oh, Bones. Doc.
Scene: Drawing room.
Korob said: You forget what we were sent here for.
Sylvia said: I forget nothing. I'm not a puppet, Korob, like you.
Korob said: You're a traitor.
Sylvia said: You are a fool. We have nothing like this and I like it. To touch, to feel to understand the idea of luxury I like it. And I don't intend to leave it.
Korob said: We have a duty to the old ones.
Sylvia said: What do they know of sensations? This is a new world.
Korob said: You're cruel. You torture our specimens.
Sylvia said: And that, too, is a new sensation. I find it stimulating.
Korob said: You're wrong! You're discarding everything we live by.
Sylvia said: I live by my own decisions. You're a weak fool, Korob.
Korob said: I have the power.
Sylvia said: But you're afraid to use it. Don't threaten me. I can squash you and that would be an interesting sensation, yes. I find I like these new sensations. Don't try to push me.
The door opens and the group enters.
Sylvia said: Captain. It's time for our talk. Korob, leave us alone and take these men with you.
Korob picks up the communicator and Enterprise from the table.
Korob said: This is not ended, Sylvia.
Sylvia said: But it may end soon, old man.
He leaves, followed by McCoy, Scott and Sulu.
Kirk said: What now? You wave your magic wand and destroy my mind, too?
Sylvia said: There's no real damage to the mind, Captain, simply a drain of knowledge and will.
Kirk said: You don't call that damage?
Sylvia said: Why should I?
Kirk said: You'd know if you had compassion. A woman should have compassion, but I forget you're not a woman.
Sylvia said: But you're mistaken, Captain. I am a woman now. I come from a world without sensation as you and I now know it. It excites me. I want more.
Kirk said: You seem to need us. Why?
Sylvia said: Because you have knowledge which I lack. but were our abilities put together. Tell me about power, Captain. How does it feel?
As Korob watches from behind a screen, Kirk puts his hand on her shoulder. He strokes her neck and face.
Kirk said: What about Korob?
Sylvia said: He is a fool. I'll do without him. But you? Why do I find you different? Why would it be so difficult to dispose of you?
Kirk said: Why don't you simply probe my mind and get what you want?
Sylvia said: No, not that, not for you. What I want is a joining. My mind to yours willingly. Think of the secrets you could learn. Think of the power that would be yours. Anything you can imagine, I can give you.
Kirk said: You're very persuasive. What happens if I go along?
Sylvia said: Then everything would be ours together. I've never conceived of the idea of togetherness before. It excites me. You excite me. Why?
Kirk said: For the same reasons you excite me. You're a very beautiful woman.
He kisses her.
Sylvia said: You find me beautiful? But I can be many women. (now she's blonde teen jail-bait) You like what you see. (a platinum blonde in a loose cat-suit) or do you prefer me as I was?
Kirk said: You have a knack for giving me difficult choices. (kisses her again) You have nothing like that where you come from?
Sylvia said: Nothing.
Kirk said: Your people, when they come here
Sylvia said: They're like, like feathers in the wind without the transmuter.
Kirk said: (nuzzling her neck) Transmuter?
Sylvia said: The source. You will learn. I will teach you later. Later.
Kirk said: Then it's a device. You do use tools.
Sylvia said: It gives only form. You're teaching me substance.
Kirk said: You haven't changed your mind? You won't return home?
Sylvia said: My home is here with you. A billion worlds of sensation to pick and choose.
Another kiss, then he lets her go and she realises 
Sylvia said: You are using me. You hold me in your arms and there is no fire in your mind. You're trying to deceive me! It's here, (the crystal) like words on a page. You are using me.
Kirk said: And why not? You've been using me and my crew.
Enter Sulu, Scott and McCoy.
Sylvia said: You will be swept away. You, your men, your ship, your worlds!
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: I don't see any change.
Desalle said: It's there, Lieutenant.
Chekov said: It was that electrical field we set up, Mister DeSalle, that dent you wanted. It's not much, but it is a start.
Desalle said: Keep it up, Mister Chekov. Channel the entire output of reactors one, two, and three into the relay stations. Whatever it is, it's starting to weaken.
Scene: Dungeon.
Korob rushes in and releases the prisoners.
Korob said: I've released the model of your ship from the crystal, although they would have freed themselves soon. It's difficult to control so many things in so little time. (hands over phaser and communicator) Here. You must go before she finds the weapon is missing.
Kirk said: I'm not leaving without my men.
Korob said: They're not your men anymore. They belong to Sylvia. I can no longer control them or her. She's irrational. The strain of adopting to your form, the insatiable desire for sensation and experience. She's a great danger and it was not necessary. We could have entered your galaxy in peace.
Spock said: You came in a ship?
Korob said: We used the transmuter.
Kirk said: Transmuter. Yes, she mentioned that.
Korob said: There's no time to explain now. She means to destroy us all. There might still be a chance. Quickly. Come.
Scene: Castle.
They go cautiously along the corridors, and a cat's snarl is heard. There on a wall is the shadow of a very large feline.
Spock said: Fascinating.
Kirk said: Why a cat?
Spock said: Racial memories. The cat is the most ruthless, most terrifying of animals, as far back as the sabre-toothed tiger.
Korob said: I think I can stop her.
Kirk said: You'd better let us. (draws the phaser) It's out of energy. She must have drained it. We could have jumped Scott and Sulu at any time. We didn't know. No way out.
Korob said: It's my problem. She's one of my kind. Come quickly.
The giant cat pads down the corridor as they retreat back into the dungeon.
Scene: Dungeon.
Spock goes to the hole in the ceiling that they originally fell through.
Kirk said: Do you think you can make it?
Spock said: Ready when you are, Captain.
Kirk said: (to Korob) Get ready.
Spock gets out into the corridor above.
Korob said: No! Get back. Get back. Get back! Get back!
Kirk said: Korob, that door won't last.
Korob said: Get back!
The door is pushed in and he is crushed underneath it. Kirk runs to his aid.
Korob said: Go. Go! (He dies, and Kirk picks up his wand.)
Spock said: Quickly, Captain.
Kirk said: Korob seemed to think this was important. Said something about a transmuter.
He throws the wand up to Spock.
Spock said: Captain, a bit more alacrity, if you please.
Kirk uses a bed frame as a trampoline to help him reach the hole, and Spock pulls him the rest of the way.
Scene: Castle.
Spock said: Captain.
McCoy arrives to take a swing at them with a morning-star. Kirk fights with him as Spock takes on Scott. Kirk knocks McCoy out.
Kirk said: Doc.
Then Sulu arrives. Spock neck-pinches Scott. Kirk parries Sulu's martial arts attack until he can throw him against a door, when he is knocked out.
Spock said: Jim!
McCoy has awakened only to get knocked out again.
Kirk said: Well, at least we found them.
Spock said: Fortuitous, Captain. And now that we have them all together? (the cat arrives) A most unpleasant situation, Captain. If only your phaser had some power.
Kirk said: Maybe we do. (he gets the wand) Sylvia, I have the transmuter. It's mine now.
Sylvia said: You're very clever, Captain. More so than I'd imagined. Clever, resourceful and handsome.
Spock said: Don't let her touch the wand, Captain.
She strokes her pendant, and she and Kirk vanish.
Spock said: Jim!
Scene: Drawing room.
Kirk said: Don't you get tired of these games?
Sylvia said: I've never played games. Give it to me.
Kirk said: I wasn't sure before, but I am now. This is the source of your power, isn't it. The transmuter.
Sylvia said: No, not the source. It's merely an amplifier. The mind is the source. Mine is simple, but yours has the key but you don't know how to use it.
Kirk said: I catch on quickly.
Sylvia said: It is not too late, Captain James Kirk. Come with me. I'll teach you. You'll teach me.
Kirk said: Why? Because your people have nothing of your own? Is that why you need us?
Sylvia said: We need your dreams, your ambition. With them, I can build. Give me the transmuter.
Kirk said: No.
Sylvia said: You fool. Don't you know what you're giving up? Everything that your species finds desirable. Look at me. I am a woman. I am all women.
Kirk said: I don't know what you are but you're not a woman. You've tortured my men and taken their minds from them. You ask for love and return pain instead.
Sylvia said: (holding a phaser) Korob was wrong. I didn't destroy all your weapons. Give me the transmuter. Give it to me!
Kirk smashes the wand against the table, and there is a blinding blue light.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk is standing on the rocks holding a phaser. Spock approaches wearing his tricorder. McCoy, Scott and Sulu follow him.
Mccoy said: What happened, Jim?
Kirk said: That'll take some explaining, Bones.
Scott said: Everything's vanished.
Kirk said: Not everything.
By his feet are two tiny blue fluffy creatures with stick-thin arms and legs, and squid's tentacles for faces.
Kirk said: Korob and Sylvia as they really are. Their forms were an illusion, just like the castle and everything else. Only the power pack gave them reality.
Spock said: Fascinating. A life form totally alien to our galaxy. If we could preserve and study this
But the little puppets collapse and die. Smoke rises from the bodies.
Mccoy said: Too late. All of this, just an illusion.
Kirk said: No illusion. Jackson is dead. Kirk to Enterprise. Come in.
Uhura said: Standing by, Captain.
Kirk said: Five to beam up.