Wolf In The Fold
Stardate: 3614.9
Original Airdate: 22 Dec, 1967
Scene: Cafe.
A woman is doing a belly-dance, complete with finger-cymbals, while the patrons lounge on cushions. The audience are appreciating the show.
Scott said: Captain, I think I'm going to like Argelius.
Kirk said: Obviously a man of good taste.
Scott said: You mean to tell me all these women, that all this is
Kirk said: Yes, yes, yes. The Argelians think very highly of their pleasure.
Mccoy said: That's an understatement if I ever heard one. This is a completely hedonistic society.
Kirk said: Do you like her, Scotty?
Scott said: Aye. Why shouldn't I?
Kirk said: Good. I've invited her to join us at the table. I thought you might like to meet her.
Scott said: Now that's what I call a real Captain. Always thinking of his men.
The dancer comes over, bends over backwards then does a shimmy before returning to the small stage to finish. Scotty bangs on the table in applause.
Kirk said: Scotty, Scotty. In Argelius they use the lights.
Scott said: Now no one has to tell an old Aberdeen pub-crawler how to applaud, Captain.
She comes over, but the man at the next table doesn't look too pleased with the situation.
Kirk said: Have one of our pillows?
The man leaves as she sits.
Scott said: 'Tis a fine foggy night tonight, and I doubt if anyone's ever told you of the marvellous fogs we have in Aberdeen.
Kara said: Never a word, but I'm dying to learn.
Scott said: Well then, why don't I show you? There's nothing like a walk in the fog with a bonny lass.
Kara said: Or a handsome gentleman. Why don't we?
Scott said: You don't mind, do you? I might even get back to the ship on time.
Kirk said: We won't leave without you, Scotty. Relax and enjoy yourself. (Scott and Kara leave) My work is never done.
Mccoy said: My work, Jim. This is prescription stuff. Don't forget, the explosion that threw Scotty against a bulkhead was caused by a woman.
Kirk said: Physically he's all right. Am I right in assuming that?
Mccoy said: Oh, yes, yes. As a matter of fact, considerable psychological damage could have been caused. For example, his total resentment toward women.
Kirk said: He seems he's overcoming his resentment.
Mccoy said: Of course, in my professional opinion, when he gets back to the ship, he's going to hate you for making him leave Argelius. But then he will have lost total resentment toward women.
Kirk said: Mission accomplished as far as Scotty is concerned. Bones, I know a little place across town where the women
Mccoy said: Oh yes. I know the place. Let's go.
Scene: Street.
The fog hangs very low on Argelius - somewhere just below knee level. Couples are meandering along lost in each other. Kirk works out which way to go, then suddenly - a scream splits the night. They run towards it and find the dancer on the ground.
Mccoy said: She's dead, Jim.
Kirk said: Stabbed, a dozen times.
(And standing by a wall, groaning, with a bloody knife in his hand, is Montgomery Scott.
Captain's log, stardate 3614.9. Planet Argelius Two. While on therapeutic shore leave, Mister Scott has fallen under suspicion of having brutally murdered an Argelian woman. The chief city administrator, Mister Hengist, has taken charge of the investigation, but has learned little of value.
Scene: Cafe.
Hengist said: (a neat man in a suit) I don't know what to say, gentlemen. Argelius is the last planet in the galaxy I'd expect a thing like this to happen.
Kirk said: We're just as shocked as you are, Mister Hengist.
Hengist said: If this was my home planet, Rigel Four, I'd have a dozen investigators working on the matter, but they don't exist here.
Mccoy said: You're not a native of Argelius, sir?
Hengist said: Oh, no. Argelius hires its administrative officers from other planets. The Argelians aren't very efficient, you know. Gentle, harmless people. Mister Scott. Mister Scott? Now, are you sure you've never seen this before? (the knife)
Scott said: I, I don't remember.
Hengist said: Really, sir. That is hardly helpful.
Kirk said: Scotty, you left the cafe with the girl. Do you remember that? What happened next?
Scott said: We were walking in the fog. I was up ahead trying to lead the way. I heard the girl scream. I remember starting to turn. I don't remember another thing.
Kirk said: Scotty, you've got to remember.
Mccoy said: Jim. (they move off a little way) If he says he can't remember, he probably doesn't. You know Scotty.
Kirk said: I know a murder's been committed.
Mccoy said: You don't think by any chance that Scotty
Kirk said: It doesn't make any difference what I think.
Mccoy said: But you don't just throw him to the wolves.
Kirk said: Bones, I have a diplomatic responsibility. This happened under Argelian jurisdiction. If they want to arrest him, try him, even convict him, I have to go along with it.
Mccoy said: But he's suffering from a severe concussion.
Kirk said: We'll do what we can.
Hengist said: It's not promising, Captain. Mister Scott insists he remembers nothing, but my detector readings indicates that only his fingerprints are on the murder weapon.
Kirk said: Yes. Mister Hengist, there were other people in the cafe about the time of the murder. Several of them left just before Mister Scott and the girl did.
Hengist said: So I've been informed by the staff. They're being located and we will question them. But the outlook for your friend is quite grim.
Kirk said: What's the law in these cases?
Jaris said: The law of Argelius is love.
An elegant grey-haired man enters, with a woman.
Hengist said: Gentlemen, our prefect, Jaris. Sir, Captain Kirk, Doctor McCoy.
Jaris said: And this is my wife, Sybo.
Hengist said: And this man is Scott, the one I sent you the message about.
Jaris said: He does not look like a man capable of such an act. Still, it's been so long. Gentlemen, before our great awakening two hundred years ago, we had ways of learning the truth in such matters. We shall return to them.
Mccoy said: The Argelian empathic contact?
Jaris said: You know of this?
Kirk said: Yes, we've heard of it. I assumed it was a lost art.
Jaris said: My wife is a descendent of the ancient priestesses of our land. She has the ancestral gift. Gentlemen, I have come to invite you to my home.
Hengist said: Prefect, don't you think this should be handled in an official manner through my office?
Jaris said: It shall be handled in an official manner, Mister Hengist, since I am the highest official. Gentlemen, let us proceed to my home where, with the aid of my wife, we shall learn the truth. Please.
Scene: Jaris' home.
The middle eastern theme continues with spiral columns, onion-dome arches, latticed windows and plenty of cushions.
Kirk said: Depending on your wife's empathic abilities is all very well, Prefect, but there's only one way we can find out what it is Mister Scott cannot remember. Since you find it impossible to let us go back up to our ship, I can beam down a technician with a psycho-tricorder.
Mccoy said: Prefect, it will give us a detailed account of everything that's happened to Mister Scott in the last twenty four hours.
Hengist said: Oh, I'd advise against it, Prefect. This is purely an Argelian matter.
Jaris said: My wife must meditate for a time before she's ready. I see no reason why we should not use that time to good advantage. Very well, Captain.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Enterprise. Spock here.
Scene: Jaris' home.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, beam down a technician with a psycho-tricorder, please. Use these co-ordinates.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Acknowledged. Co-ordinates received.
Scene: Jaris' home.
Kirk said: Kirk out.
Mccoy said: Prefect, the psycho-tricorder will require privacy to be effective.
Jaris said: There is a small chamber below this room. Perhaps that will suffice. Captain, news of this frightful murder is spreading among my people. They're greatly disturbed. I have already heard talk of closing Argelius to space vehicles.
Kirk said: Well, that would be most unfortunate. Argelian hospitality is well-known, as well as its strategic importance as a space port.
Jaris said: Yes. I believe it's the only one in the quadrant. (hands out drinks) Captain.
Hengist said: There are other people we should question. Perhaps I should go expedite their arrival here?
Jaris said: Yes, please do so, Mister Hengist. Anyone with any connection with this murder should be present at the ceremony.
A woman beams down as Hengist leaves.
Karen said: Lieutenant Karen Tracy reporting as ordered, Captain.
Kirk said: Lieutenant, I want a twenty four hour regressive memory check made on Mister Scott.
Karen said: Yes, Captain. Where shall I set up?
Jaris said: If you'll Just follow me, Lieutenant.
Jaris and Karen leave.
Kirk said: Scotty, co-operate completely with Lieutenant Tracy. Maybe we'll clear this thing up.
Scott said: I certainly hope so, sir. I can't stand this not knowing. (leaves)
Mccoy said: Captain, under normal conditions, Scotty would have never done such a thing.
Kirk said: But that blow on the head. It could put all his previous behaviour patterns into the junk heap.
Mccoy said: Of course, there's another possibility.
Kirk said: Explain.
Mccoy said: Hysterical amnesia. When a man feels guilty about something, something too terrible to remember, he blots it out of his conscious memory.
Jaris returns and crosses to another doorway.
Jaris said: Are you ready, Sybo?
Sybo said: I am ready. May I have the knife, please?
Jaris said: Certainly. Among other gifts, Sybo has the ability to receive impressions from inanimate objects. Do you have it, Captain?
Kirk said: The knife? No.
Jaris said: But I put it here when we arrived. It's gone.
A woman's scream fills the air.
Scene: Chamber.
Karen Tracy is lying face down on the floor, and Scott is slumped unconscious in a chair.
Kirk said: Scotty.
Mccoy said: She's dead, Jim. Just like the other one.
Kirk said: Stabbed over and over again.
Scene: Jaris' home.
Jaris said: (to Scott) Drink this. An Argelian stimulant, Doctor. Quite effective and quite harmless.
Mccoy said: Go ahead, Scotty.
Scott said: Lieutenant? Captain? Where's
Kirk said: Lieutenant Tracy is dead, Scott. You were found alone in the room.
Scott said: Dead? But I
Kirk said: What happened down there?
Scott said: I was sitting there. She was taking her readings, and now I'm sitting here.
Mccoy said: Is that all that happened?
Scott said: I tell you, I don't remember. I must have passed out.
Mccoy said: It could be, Jim. That head injury.
Kirk said: That head injury. Think, Scotty.
Scott said: Captain, I've been trying. I can't even believe this is really happening.
Kirk said: There's no way into that place from up here. Prefect, is there another entrance to that chamber?
Jaris said: Yes, there's a door that leads into the garden, but it's been locked for years.
Mccoy said: Locks can be picked, Jim.
Kirk said: Check it.
McCoy leaves and Hengist enters. He is accompanied by the man from the next table and one of the musicians.
Hengist said: Prefect, both of these men were at the cafe the night of the murder.
Kirk said: Where've they been during the past few minutes?
Hengist said: Captain, if you don't mind please.
Kirk said: There's been another murder, Hengist. One of my crew.
Jaris said: The same as Kara.
Hengist said: Why, that's terrible. (to the man from the next table) You, my men picked you up near there. What were you doing?
Morla said: Please, I know nothing about it. I didn't kill anyone.
Hengist said: Well, how was the girl killed?
Kirk said: Stabbed. And there's no sign of the weapon.
Hengist said: If only I had facilities.
Kirk said: You. You were a musician at the cafe. You played for the murdered girl.
Tark said: Since she was a little girl, she danced for me. She was my daughter. Prefect, how could this thing have happened here? The man who did it must be found. He must be punished.
Kirk said: And you. You left the cafe before Scott and Kara.
Jaris said: Is this true? Who are you?
Morla said: Morla of Cantaba Street, Prefect. I was there. I have nothing to hide.
Kirk said: Did you know Kara?
Tark said: Of course he knew her. They were to be married, but he behaved disgracefully. Unheard of. He was jealous of her.
Jaris said: That is very disquieting.
Morla said: I know it was wrong, but I just couldn't help myself. I loved her, and when she went over to the table with these men, I could not stand to watch, so I left and went home.
Kirk said: Jealousy has often been a motive for murder.
Jaris said: Yes, I know. That is why the emotion is so strongly disapproved of here.
Morla said: Prefect, I didn't kill anyone. I couldn't.
Jaris said: We shall see, Morla.
Mccoy said: Sorry, Jim. The lock may or may not have been picked. It would be hard to tell even with the tricorder.
Kirk said: Can you prove you went directly home?
Hengist said: Captain, may I continue with the questions please?
Kirk said: Well get on with it, man. Just don't stand there.
Jaris said: Captain, Captain. You're behaving very much like a man who is desperately trying anything to save his friend. Would you be as desperate to save Argelius as a space port for your Starfleet?
Kirk said: Well of course I'm trying to save my friend, if he's innocent. And he hasn't been proven guilty.
Hengist said: Need I remind you of the circumstances, Captain? In both cases, your friend Scott was discovered over the body and later claimed to remember nothing.
Sybo said: I am ready, Jaris.
Jaris said: Gentlemen, sit down please.
Everyone sits around the central brazier.
Kirk said: On one condition, Prefect. That the room be sealed so that no one can leave or enter while the ceremony is going on.
Jaris said: (he flicks a row of switches and the doorways are closed) The room is sealed.
Scott said: Captain, you mean my neck is going to have to depend on some spooky mumbo jumbo?
Kirk's communicator beeps.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Spock said: Spock here, Captain. May I have a word with you?
Kirk said: Yes. Excuse me, gentlemen. (moves away from the group) Yes, Mister Spock?
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Concerning the situation you related to us. In my opinion, the Argelian empathic contact is an interesting phenomenon, but the technique is not sound enough to risk a man's life.
Scene: Jaris' home.
Kirk said: What do you suggest, Mister Spock?
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Simply that we beam Mister Scott on board the Enterprise and employ our computers to learn the truth.
Scene: Jaris' home.
Kirk said: These are a proud people. They have their own customs, their own laws, and while we're here we're subject to them. It is absolutely imperative that this matter be resolved according to Argelian law. Is that clear?
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Quite clear, Captain.
Scene: Jaris' home.
Kirk said: I don't like it any more than you do, Spock, but there's nothing we can do about it. Kirk out,
Everyone is holding hands around the brazier.
Sybo said: Let us begin. Let the circle not be broken. Concentrate upon the flame which burns upon the altar of truth.
Yes, there is something here. Something terrible. I feel its presence. Fear, anger, hatred. Anger feeds the flame. Oh! Oh! There is evil here. Monstrous, terrible evil. Consuming hunger. Hatred of all that lives. Hatred of women. A hunger that never dies. It is strong, overpowering. An ancient terror. It has a name. Beratis, Kesla, Redjac! Devouring all life, all light. A hunger that will never die! Redjac! Redjac!
(The lights go out, and she screams. When the lights come on again, the flame has gone out. Scott is standing holding Sybo in his arms, then he lets her go and she falls forward across McCoy's lap. There is a knife in her back.
Later...)
Kirk said: Three murders, and Scotty the only possible answer each time.
Mccoy said: I don't care what the circumstances indicate, Jim. Scotty simply could not have done it.
Kirk said: Normally, no, but that blow on his head could
Scott said: No, Captain.
KIRK Scotty, I'm sorry. You don't even remember whether you did it or not.
Hengist said: I agree with you, Captain. I'm perfectly satisfied Mister Scott is guilty.
Kirk said: But not responsible.
Hengist said: That is unproven, sir.
Kirk said: We can prove it, if he's insane.
Jaris said: Gentlemen, please. How could any man do such monstrous things?
Kirk said: That's what we hope to find out, sir.
Jaris said: Mister Scott?
Scott said: Sir, I swear to you I did not kill your wife or the other ladies.
Hengist said: By your own admission, you don't know whether you did or didn't. Your so-called failing memory
Kirk said: Mister Hengist. On the Enterprise, we can make a recording of the registrations of Mister Scott's conscious and subconscious mind. They will tell us what happened to him in the recent past.
Mccoy said: There would be no room for doubt. We would know. And after all, that's what we're after, isn't it, Prefect? To know?
Jaris said: You, sir, claim to remember nothing about the murders.
Scott said: Aye.
Jaris said: If this is so, you may have killed without knowing it. Will your machines tell us this?
Kirk said: No doubt will remain.
Jaris said: Very well. We will go to your ship, and he who is guilty will face the ancient penalties, barbaric and horrible though they may be. The ancient penalty for murder was death by slow torture. That law has never been changed. Do you understand that, Mister Scott?
Scott said: Aye. I understand.
Captain's log, stardate 3615.4. With Mister Scott in a technical state of arrest, we have beamed aboard the Enterprise to continue the investigation.
Scene: Briefing room.
Kirk said: Each testifier will sit here, place his hand on this plate. Any deviation from factual truth will be immediately detected and relayed to this computer which will in turn notify us. Doctor McCoy has already fed the computer his medical reports. Our laboratory experts are examining the murder weapon and will give their data to the computers for analysis. Shall we begin?
Jaris nods.
Kirk said: Mister Scott, will you take the stand?
Scott sits on the raised chair and puts his right hand on the sensor plate. Yet at no time does the camera let us see all his finger.
Kirk said: Computer, identify verification.
Computer said: Working. Lieutenant Commander Montgomery Scott. Serial number SE-19754-T. Verified.
Kirk said: Subject's present physical condition.
Computer said: Working. Subject recently received severe blow on skull. Damage healing. Some peripheral abnormalities.
Kirk said: Sufficient abnormalities to account for periods of functional amnesia?
Computer said: Working. Negative.
Mccoy said: Captain, I don't see how that can be.
Kirk said: Unless Scotty's lying about his loss of memory.
Scott said: I'm not lying, Captain. I don't remember a thing about the first two murders.
Kirk said: Computer, accuracy scan.
Computer said: Subject relaying accurate account. No physiological changes.
Scott said: Captain? I didn't black out when Mister Jaris' wife was killed.
Kirk said: All right, Scotty, let's have it.
Scott said: We were holding hands. When the lights went out, the circle was broken. I heard the poor lady scream, and as I was near the head of the table anyway I went toward her. But there was something in my way.
Kirk said: Something? You mean someone.
Scott said: No, Captain, some thing. Cold, it was, like a stinking draught out of a slaughterhouse, but it wasn't really there. Like it. (lost for words) If you know what I mean.
Kirk said: Computer.
Computer said: Subject relaying accurate account. No physiological changes.
Kirk said: All right. Let's hit it on the head. Scotty, did you kill Sybo?
Scott said: No, Captain. That I'm sure of.
Hengist said: He's been saying that right along. It means no more now than it did before.
Kirk said: Scotty, lie to me. How old are you?
Scott said: Twenty two sir.
Computer said: Inaccurate. Inaccurate. Data in error.
Kirk said: After the lights went out, Mister Scott, who was holding your hand?
Scott said: Morla on the one side and you on the other, sir.
Morla said: But that doesn't mean anything, Captain, with a room that small. The lights were out. Anyone would've had time to kill the lady.
Hengist said: But I remind you we found Mister Scott holding her in his arms, the knife still (to Jaris) I'm sorry, sir, but I must. The knife still in her back and blood on his hands.
Kirk said: The verifier showed that he was telling the truth when he said he didn't kill her.
Hengist said: There were two other women murdered.
Kirk said: Mister Scott. Did you kill Kara?
Scott said: I don't remember.
Kirk said: Did you kill Lieutenant Tracy?
Scott said: I don't remember.
Kirk said: Computer, accuracy scan.
Computer said: Subject relaying accurate account. No physiological changes.
Jaris said: All that proves is that he's telling the truth when he says he doesn't remember.
Hengist said: This is a waste of time.
Kirk said: After we take the testimony here, we'll run a psycho-tricorder analysis of Mister Scott's memory, which is what we wanted to do on the surface. That will give us a complete record. Will that satisfy you, Mister Hengist?
Hengist said: Well, if you can convince me that the machine is incapable of error, and if it shows he did not kill the women.
Kirk said: There will be no error. As for the rest of it, the readings will show. You can step down, Mister Scott, if there are no objections.
Hengist said: I object to the entire procedure.
Jaris said: Mister Hengist, we are here on my authority. We will co-operate.
Hengist said: Prefect, I know you mean well, but I've had experience
Jaris said: For the time being, we will accept Captain Kirk's explanation of the machine's accuracy as factual. I do, however, reserve to myself the right to make the final determination.
Kirk said: We can ask no more. Mister Morla, will you take the stand?
He does so.
Kirk said: Where were you at the time that Kara was murdered?
Morla said: I'm not sure. Walking home, I assume. I was angry.
Spock said: Anger is a relative state, sir. Were you angry enough to do violence?
Morla said: I've never done violence in my life. I don't think I could. You've got to believe me. I wouldn't kill her. I couldn't. I loved her, and she loved me.
Tark said: That's not true! He might think she loved him, but she didn't. She told me. He was jealous. All the time. They fought constantly.
Kirk said: Did you kill Lieutenant Tracy?
Morla said: No.
Kirk said: Did you kill Sybo?
Morla said: No.
Kirk said: Computer, verification scan.
Computer said: Subject relaying accurate account, though some statements subjective. No physiological changes.
Kirk said: All right, Mister Morla, I think you can step down now. Sybo spoke of a hunger that never dies. Something that thrives on fear, terror, death. Mister Spock, maybe we're going about it in the wrong way. Let's assume that Sybo was a sensitive. That she did sense something, something evil.
Spock said: Sensitivity of certain Argelian women is a documented fact, Captain.
Jaris said: My poor Sybo's talent was genuine, gentlemen. What she told you was true.
Kirk said: All right, then, what was it she said, exactly? A monstrous evil, ancient terror.
Mccoy said: That devours all life and light.
Kirk said: She said something else, words that didn't make sense.
Mccoy said: Yes. Redjac, Beratis and, er, Kesla.
Kirk said: Obscure, meaningless words.
Spock said: To us, perhaps, but to the computer?
Kirk said: Ah. Mister Spock, check them out.
Spock said: Computer, linguistic bank. Definition of following word. Redjac.
Computer said: Working. Negative finding.
Spock said: There is no such word in the linguistics bank?
Computer said: Affirmative.
Spock said: Scan all other banks.
Computer said: Working. Affirmative. A proper name.
Spock said: Define.
Computer said: Redjac. Source Earth, nineteenth century. Language, English. Nickname for mass murderer of women. Other Earth synonym, Jack the Ripper.
Kirk said: Jack the Ripper?
Hengist said: That's ridiculous. He lived hundreds of years ago.
Tark said: A man couldn't survive all these centuries.
Jaris said: Just before she died, my wife said, it is a hunger that never dies.
Tark said: But all men die.
Kirk said: Yes, all men die. And Jack the Ripper couldn't be alive if he were a man. But everything we've uncovered points to Jack the Ripper, which is an impossibility, isn't it? Or is it?
Spock said: Humans and humanoids make up only a small percentage of the life forms we know of. There are entities possessed of extremely long life spans, virtually immortal.
Kirk said: We know that someone or something killed three women. If it's impossible for it to be human, it has to be something else. Something driven to kill.
Mccoy said: Sybo said it feeds on death.
Spock said: In the strict scientific sense, Doctor, we all feed on death. Even vegetarians.
Mccoy said: Yes, but she said more than that. Not just death, but fear. She said it also feeds on fear.
Spock said: Which would tend to support the proposition that the murderer was not human. Deriving sustenance from emotion is not unknown in the galaxy, and fear is among the strongest and most violent of the emotions.
Hengist said: Surely, Prefect, this has gone far enough. Someone, some man has killed three women. We have the prime suspect in our hands. Are we going to let him go and start chasing ghosts?
Kirk said: No, Mister Hengist, not ghosts. Possibly not human, but not ghosts. Mister Spock, check out the possibilities.
Spock said: Computer, digest log recordings for past five solar minutes. Correlate hypotheses. Compare with life forms register. Question. Could such an entity within discussed limits exist in this galaxy?
Computer said: The Drella of Alpha Carinae Five derives nourishment from the emotion of love. There is sufficient precedent for existence of creature, nature unknown, which could exist on emotion of fear.
Spock said: Computer, extrapolate most likely composition of such entity.
Spock said: Working. To meet with specified requirements, entity would exist without form in conventional sense. Most probable mass of energy of highly cohesive electromagnetic field.
Kirk said: Computer, could the described entity assume physical form?
Computer said: Affirmative. Precedent, mellitus, cloud creature of Alpha Majoris One.
Hengist said: Fairy tales. Ghosts and goblins.
Kirk said: No, I've seen the mellitus myself. In its natural state, it's gaseous. When it's at rest, it's solid. Mister Spock, let's assume the existence of this creature.
Spock said: I point out that Jack the Ripper slew at will in the heart of the most populous city of old Earth and was never identified.
Kirk said: Doesn't seem likely, does it?
Spock said: I suggest the possibility of a hypnotic screen, which blinds all but the victim to the presence of the killer.
Jaris said: Is that possible?
Mccoy said: Extremely possible There are many such examples that exist in nature.
Hengist said: This is fantasy! We all know the murderer is sitting right here. You're trying to cloud the issue. I've got a mind to
Jaris said: I am satisfied the course of this investigation is valid enough. Please be seated, Mister Hengist.
Kirk said: All right, Mister Spock, what do we have? A creature without form, that feeds on horror and fear, that must assume a physical shape to kill.
Spock said: And I suspect preys on women because women are more easily and more deeply terrified, generating more sheer horror than the male of the species.
Kirk said: Computer. Criminological files. Cases of unsolved mass murders of women since Jack the Ripper.
Computer said: Working. 1932. Shanghai, China, Earth. Seven women knifed to death. 1974, Kiev, USSR, Earth. Five women knifed to death. 2105. Martian colonies. Eight women knifed to death. 2156. Heliopolis, Alpha Eridani Two. Ten women knifed to death. There are additional examples.
Spock said: Captain, those places are aligned directly between Argelius and Earth.
Kirk said: Yes. When man moved out into the galaxy, that thing must've moved with him. Computer, identify the proper names Kesla and Beratis.
Computer said: Working. Kesla. Name given to unidentified mass murderer of women on planet Deneb Two. Beratis. Name given to unidentified mass murderer of women on planet Rigel Four. Additional data. Murders on Rigel Four occurred one solar year ago.
All heads turn towards Mister Hengist
Kirk said: You come from Rigel Four.
Hengist said: Well, many people do. It's not a crime.
Kirk said: No, but what we're investigating is. Would you mind taking the stand, Mister Hengist?
Hengist said: I will not.
Jaris said: Mister Hengist.
Hengist said: Prefect, this has gone far enough. I will not take the stand.
Spock said: I can appreciate your position, sir. You are in charge of civil disturbances locally. If you are the entity for which we search, what better position from which to kill with impunity?
Mccoy said: Just after you left Jaris' house, we discovered the murder knife was missing.
Kirk said: And you were unaccounted for when Lieutenant Tracy was murdered.
Spock said: An entity which feeds on fear and terror would find a perfect hunting ground on Argelius, a planet without violence, where the inhabitants are as peaceful as sheep. The entity would be as a hungry wolf in that fold.
Hengist said: Gentlemen, I know something of the law. You're engaging in sheer speculation.
Kirk said: Perhaps. Mister Spock. The murder weapon.
Spock said: Computer. Report on analysis of Exhibit A.
Computer said: Working. Exhibit A on visual. Composition of blade, boridium. Composition of handle, murinite. Details of carving on handle conform to folk art forms, indicating place of origin.
Spock said: Specify. Point of origin.
Computer said: Artefact produced by hill people of Argus River region, planet Rigel Four.
Kirk said: Now then, Mister Hengist
But Hengist tries to make a break for it, even landing a very good kick on Kirk, who repays him with an even better right cross. Hengist falls to the floor.
Mccoy said: He's dead, Jim.
Kirk said: But that's impossible.
The lights dim eerily.
Voice said: Redjac! Redjac! Redjac! Redjac! Redjac! (maniacal laughter)
The lights come back.
Spock said: The computer will not respond to these controls. The entity is unquestionably controlling it.
Kirk said: And the computer controls the ship.
Voice said: Redjac! Redjac! Redjac! Redjac!
Mccoy said: Scotty, give me a hand. (They prop Hengist up on a chair, leaning against the table.)
Spock said: It's no use, Captain. The bypass circuits are blocked.
Kirk said: Audio cut off, Spock.
Scott said: Captain!
The viewscreen has an image of hot swirling flames or lava. Anyway, it is fear-inducing.
Tankris said: (a lady yeoman) What's happening, Captain?
Jaris said: What does it mean?
Kirk said: It means that thing can control the entire operation of the ship, including the life support systems.
Morla said: You mean it could kill us all?
Spock said: Indeed, it will try, but not immediately. We know it feeds on fear and terror. There are nearly four hundred and forty humans aboard this ship. Surely it will try to breed fear and terror before it kills.
Kirk said: All hands, this is the captain. Stay at your posts. Remain calm. Captain out. Bones. What's the sedative situation?
Mccoy said: I've got some stuff that would tranquillise an active volcano.
Kirk said: Good. Start distribution immediately. The longer we can hold back that fear, the more time we'll have to get that thing out of the computer. Prefect, you'll all be safer here. Spock, come with me.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: Spock, don't you have a compulsory scan unit built into the computer banks?
Spock said: Yes we do, Captain, but with the entity in control
Kirk said: Aren't there certain mathematical problems which simply cannot be solved?
Spock said: Indeed. If we could focus the attention of the computer on one of them.
Kirk said: That ought to do it.
Scene: Turbolift.
Kirk said: Spock!
The door nearly closes before he is inside.
Spock said: Apparently our friends learned very quickly.
Kirk said: Too quickly. Bridge.
But the lights indicate they are going down quickly, not up.
Spock said: Freefall!
Kirk said: Out of control. Put it on manual. Bridge.
They start going up, then an alarm goes off.
Kirk said: That was due to be next. Life-support malfunction.
Spock said: We don't have much time, Captain.
Kirk said: You said it yourself, Spock. It wants terror, not just death.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Captain, the life-support system override jammed.
Kirk said: All right. Man your station, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Aye, sir.
Voice said: Captain, you're wasting your time.
Kirk said: Cut that thing off.
Voice said: You and all aboard your ship are about to die!
Kirk said: Try and cut that thing off.
Sulu said: This is the first time I heard a malfunction threaten us.
Kirk said: Man your post, Mister Sulu. (to all the crew) Prepare your manual overrides. You may need them.
Sulu said: Aye, sir.
Kirk crouches down by Spock under the life-support station.
Kirk said: Spock.
Spock said: Normal environmental levels have been restored, Captain, but it will not last long. A few hours at best.
Kirk said: That should be enough time. Let's get at it.
Sulu said: What's going on, Captain?
Kirk said: Never mind, Mister Sulu.
A nurse enters.
Kirk said: Tranquilliser?
Nurse said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Everyone, including yourself.
Nurse said: Yes, sir.
Voice said: You cannot stop me now, Captain. It will do you no good. I control all circuits. You cannot silence me. You cannot reach me. Your manual overrides are extremely limited in life.
Kirk said: Spock?
Spock said: Proceeding, Captain, but I will need some time.
Kirk said: Yes, I know.
Voice said: Soon all control will be restored to me! There is nothing you can do to prevent it!
Kirk said: If you destroy this ship, you destroy yourself.
Voice said: I am without ending. I have existed from the dawn of time, and I shall I live beyond its end! In the meantime, I shall feed, and this time I do not need a knife. You will all die horribly in searing pain!
Spock said: It is attempting to generate terror, Captain.
Voice said: I can cut off your oxygen and suffocate you!
Sulu said: Captain? (gets his injection, and grins) Who ever he is, he sure talks gloomy.
Kirk said: Man your post, Mister. If any of the other systems go out, switch to manual override, and above all, don't be afraid.
Sulu said: With an armful of this stuff, I wouldn't be afraid of a supernova.
Spock said: Ready.
Kirk said: Implement.
Spock said: Computer, this is a Class A compulsory directive. Compute to the last digit the value of pi.
Voice said: No, no, no, no! No, no!
Spock said: As we know, the value of pi is a transcendental figure without resolution. The computer banks will work on this problem to the exclusion of all else until we order it to stop.
Kirk said: Yes, that should keep that thing busy for a while. The Argelians will be the first to panic. Let's get back to the briefing room.
Sulu said: I wonder who it is we're not supposed to be afraid of.
Scene: Briefing room.
McCoy is in the process of inoculating the group. Scott feels no pain, that's for sure.
Scott said: Well, sir?
Kirk said: I doubt very much whether the computers will be inhabited by more than a group of figures for a while.
Spock said: There is resistance, Captain, but the directive is succeeding. Bank after bank is turning to the problem.
Mccoy said: If you drive it out of the computers, it'll have to go somewhere else.
Kirk said: How are you doing?
Mccoy said: I'm almost finished. Just Jaris and me.
Maniacal laughter over the intercom.
Spock said: Complete computer control, Captain. The entity has fled.
Kirk said: Yes, but where to? Bones, what would happen if that thing entered a tranquillised body?
Mccoy said: Well, it might take up knitting, but nothing more violent than that.
Kirk said: You say everyone's had a shot but you and Jaris?
Mccoy said: And you and Mister Spock, Captain.
Kirk said: Well, I'm willing to take a chance on Mister Spock. Better give yourself a shot, Doc.
Mccoy said: No, I don't think so. I think I ought to stay clear.
Kirk said: Do as I say.
McCoy injects himself.
Kirk said: Extend your arm, Mister Jaris.
Jaris said: (grabs Kirk's throat) No, no, kill you all! Die! Make you suffer!
Spock administers a neck-pinch. Hengist comes back to life, snatches up the knife and grabs Yeoman Tankris.
Hengist said: Everybody keep back or I'll kill her! I'll kill her! Keep back!
Mccoy said: You'd better be careful. You're going to hurt somebody with that thing.
Hengist pushes his hostage at McCoy then tries to attack Kirk. He's easily defeated.
Hengist said: You'll suffer! You'll suffer. (Spock injects him) I'll kill all of you.
Kirk said: Let's get him to the Transporter Room, quick!
Hengist said: You'll die, die, die. Everybody will die.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk carries the giggling Hengist in a fireman's lift, while Spock follows.
Hengist said: Kill, kill, kill you all.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: Deep space. Full power. Widest angle of dispersion. Maintain.
Kyle said: No need to get excited, Captain. I'll do it.
They lay Hengist on the pad.
Kirk said: You do it, Spock.
Hengist said: Everybody die. You'll all suffer.
He is beamed out.
Kyle said: You didn't have to shove me, Mister Spock. I'd have gotten round to it.
McCoy and Scott enter, with big grins.
Mccoy said: Well, Jaris is all right.
Scott said: What did you do with that thing, Captain? Did you send it back to the planet?
Kirk said: No. We beamed it out into open space, Scotty. Widest possible dispersion.
Mccoy said: That thing can't die.
Spock said: Possibly, Doctor. Its consciousness may continue for some time, consisting of billions of separate bits of energy, floating forever in space, powerless.
Kirk said: But it will die finally. You seem very happy about the whole thing.
Scott said: Why not? For a while there I didn't know whether I was innocent or guilty.
Kirk said: Bones, how long will it take for this tranquilliser to wear off?
Mccoy said: I don't know. Five or six hours. I gave them a pretty big shot, Jim.
Kirk said: Yes, I can see that. Well Mister Spock, for the next five or six hours, we're going to have the happiest crew in space. Of course, we won't get much work done.
Spock said: Captain, since you came to Argelius to rest, I suggest you take advantage of the opportunity.
Kirk said: That's a splendid idea, Mister Spock. I know a cafe where the women are so
Mccoy said: I know the place, Jim.
Scott said: Let's go see!
Kirk said: You, gentlemen? In your condition? Don't be ridiculous. Mister Spock, this cafe has women that are so. (met with a Look) No, I guess not. Alone?
Kirk goes to the door and gestures for everyone to leave.
Kirk said: Gentlemen.