Metamorphosis
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 10 Nov, 1967
Scene: Shuttlecraft.
Enterprise shuttlecraft NCC1701/7 is being piloted by Kirk, assisted by Spock. McCoy is tending to a lady in a green dress and headscarf.
Spock said: We have reached projected point three, Captain. Adjust to new course two oh one mark one five.
Kirk said: Thank you, Mister Spock.
Mccoy said: (offering a drink) Jim.
Kirk said: How is she, Doc?
Mccoy said: No change.
Nancy said: Small thanks to the Starfleet.
Mccoy said: Now really, Commissioner, you can't blame the Starfleet.
Nancy said: I should've received the proper inoculations ahead of time.
Mccoy said: Sakuro's disease is extremely rare. The chances of anyone contracting it are literally billions to one.
Nancy said: I was sent to Epsilon Canaris Three to prevent a war, Doctor. Thanks to the inefficiency of the medical branch of the Starfleet, I've been forced to leave before my job was done.
Kirk said: Commissioner, I can assure you that once we reach the Enterprise, with its medical facilities, we'll have you back to your job in time for you to prevent that war.
Nancy said: How soon will we rendezvous with that ship of yours, Captain?
Kirk said: In exactly four hours, twenty one minutes, Commissioner.
Spock said: Captain.
Kirk said: Yes?
Spock said: Will you check your automatic scanner, please?
Kirk said: That's odd. I've never seen anything like that before.
Spock said: Nor have I.
They lower the central shutter to view the approaching swirly flashing thing.
Spock said: Heading directly toward us at warp speed.
Kirk said: Staying right with us. Sensor readings, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Vaguely like a cloud of ionised hydrogen, but with strong erratic electrical impulses.
Sounds of electrical shorts. The lights flicker.
Kirk said: We've got it.
Spock said: Helm does not answer, Captain.
Kirk said: Neither do the pods. Communications are dead. Building overload. Cut all power relays.
Spock said: Cut, Captain.
Nancy said: What's happening? I demand to know.
Kirk said: You already know as much as we do, Miss Hedford. Whatever that thing is outside, it's yanked us off course from the Enterprise.
Spock said: Now on course nine eight mark one two, heading directly toward Gamma Canaris region.
Mccoy said: Jim, we've got to get Miss Hedford to the Enterprise. Her condition.
Kirk said: I know, Bones, but there's nothing I can do about it.
Nancy said: I insist you make your scheduled rendezvous with the Enterprise.
Kirk said: Miss Hedford, we'll do what we can, when we can. At the moment, we're helpless. You might as well sit back and enjoy the ride.
Scene: Shuttlecraft.
The shuttlecraft has landed on a blue and purple planet. It is surrounded by lots of very high cliffs.
Kirk said: Enterprise, this is the Galileo. Come in, please, come in. Enterprise, this is the Galileo. Come in, please. It's no good. We're not transmitting. Bones?
Mccoy said: Oxygen-nitrogen atmosphere. Some krypton, argon, neon. Temperature seventy five degrees Fahrenheit. Practically identical to Earth atmosphere.
Kirk said: Spock?
Spock said: Gravity is similar to Earth. Most unusual in view of its size. The bulk of the body seems to be iron and nickel. More than an asteroid. Like a small planetoid, I should say. Possibly a remnant of a planet breakup. Totally suitable for human life.
Kirk said: All right, we get out and get up. Issue phasers. Bones, maintain full alert. Commissioner, you'll stay inside.
Nancy said: Just how long am I supposed to stay inside, Captain?
Kirk said: That's a very good question. I wish I could answer it. All right. Let's go.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: Take a look around, Bones.
Spock checks the shuttlecraft for damage.
Spock said: Most unusual. Unlikely. In fact, Captain, I would say quite impossible.
Kirk said: Nothing wrong and nothing works.
Spock said: Precisely.
Kirk said: There must be a reason.
Spock said: Obviously.
Kirk said: Let's look a little further.
Nancy comes out of the shuttlecraft.
Mccoy said: Jim, I just took a tricording sweep, and I got the same readings almost as Spock got when we were pulled off course.
Spock said: The ionised cloud.
Mccoy said: I think so, only it reads here on the surface with us. It's in that direction, and it doesn't read solid. It's more unstable, tenuous, like a collection of gases.
Cochrane said: Hello! Hello!
A figure in an orange jumpsuit waves and runs towards them.
Spock said: Fascinating.
Kirk said: Bones, get a physiological reading on that, whatever it is.
Cochrane said: Hello! Are you real? I mean, I'm not imagining you, am I?
Kirk said: We're real enough.
Cochrane said: You speak English. Earth people?
Kirk said: From the Federation.
Cochrane said: The F? Well, it doesn't matter. I'm Cochrane. I've been marooned here who knows how long. If you only knew how good it is to see you. And a woman. A beautiful one at that.
Kirk said: I'm Captain James T. Kirk, commanding the starship Enterprise. (they shake hands) This is my first officer Mister Spock.
Cochrane said: You're a Vulcan, aren't you?
Spock said: Correct.
Kirk said: Chief Surgeon Leonard McCoy.
Cochrane said: Doctor.
Mccoy said: Pleasure.
Kirk said: Oh, and excuse me, Assistant Federation Commissioner Hedford.
Cochrane said: Ma'am. You're food to a starving man. All of you. Hey, that's a nice ship. Simple and clean. Been trying to get her to go again? Well, forget it. It won't work.
Mccoy said: He's human, Jim. Everything checks out perfectly.
Kirk said: Mister Cochrane. We were forced off our course and taken here by some force we couldn't identify.
Spock said: Which seems to be on the surface of this body at the moment.
Cochrane said: Well, I wouldn't know anything about that.
Spock said: You say we'll be unable to get the ship to function again?
Cochrane said: Not a chance. There's some sort of dampening field down here. Power systems don't work. Take my word for it.
Spock said: You don't mind if we continue to try?
Cochrane said: Go right ahead. You've got plenty of time.
Kirk said: What about you, Cochrane? How did you get here?
Cochrane said: Marooned, I told you. Look, we'll have lots of time to learn about each other. I have a small place over that way. All the comforts of home. I can even offer you a hot bath.
Nancy said: How perceptive of you to notice I needed one.
Kirk said: If you don't mind, Mister Cochrane, I'd like more than just a statement that you were marooned here. It's a long way off the beaten path.
Cochrane said: That's right. That's why I'm so glad to see you. Look, I'll tell you everything you want to know, but not here. Your ship is sure a beauty.
Kirk said: Yes, she is. And you've been out of circulation quite a while. The principles may be new to you. Mister Spock, why don't you explain our methods of propulsion to Mister Cochrane?
Spock and Cochrane go to the other side of the shuttlecraft.
Mccoy said: Talks a lot, but he doesn't say much.
Kirk said: I've noticed something else.
Mccoy said: What's that?
Kirk said: He looks familiar.
Mccoy said: Familiar? Now that you mention it, he does.
Kirk said: I can't quite place him, but. What about Miss Hedford?
Mccoy said: No temperature yet, but we've got to get under way soon, Jim. I guarantee you, it will develop. What are we going to do?
Kirk said: Take Cochrane up on his offer.
Scene: Outside Cochrane's home.
Not a true vertical in the building, and palms in the garden. It looks quite nice and avant-garde.
Spock said: You built this, Mister Cochrane?
Cochrane said: Yes. I had tools and supplies left over from my crash.
Spock said: Not bad.
Cochrane said: Not Earth, but it's livable. I grow vegetables in the fields over that next ridge. Come on in.
Scene: Cochrane's home.
Kirk said: All the comforts of home indeed, Mister Cochrane. Where'd you get the antiques?
Cochrane said: You mean my instruments? I imagine things have changed a lot since I crashed.
Kirk said: Not that much.
Hands a piece over to Spock to examine.
Nancy said: Must you keep it so terribly hot in here?
Cochrane said: The temperature's a constant seventy two degrees. Let me get you something cool to drink.
Mccoy said: Do you feel hot?
Nancy said: I feel infuriated, deeply put upon, and absolutely outraged.
Mccoy said: It was quite a hike here. You're tired. Just take it easy for a while.
Nancy said: I'll rest later, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Temperature, Captain. First sign.
Kirk said: Yes, I know. It means we're running out of time.
Spock said: Captain, Doctor.
From the doorway, the three see a swirly thing which then disappears. Cochrane comes in with a tray of drinks.
Kirk said: What was that?
Cochrane said: Well, sometimes the light plays tricks on you. You'd be surprised what I've imagined I've seen around here sometimes.
Spock said: We imagined nothing, Mister Cochrane. There was an entity out there and I suspect it was the same entity which brought us here. Please explain.
Cochrane said: There's nothing to explain.
He hands a drink to Nancy.
Nancy said: Thank you.
Kirk said: You'll find I have a very low tolerance level where the safety of my people are concerned. We find you out here, where no human has any business being. We were virtually hijacked in space and brought here. Now I'm not just requesting an explanation, Mister. I'm demanding one.
Cochrane said: All right. It was the Companion.
Kirk said: The what?
Cochrane said: That's what I call it. As a matter of fact, Captain, I didn't crash here. I was brought here in my disabled ship. I was almost dead. The Companion saved my life.
Spock said: You were injured?
Cochrane said: I was dying, Mister Spock.
Kirk said: You seem perfectly all right now. What was the matter?
Cochrane said: I was an old man.
Kirk said: You were what?
Cochrane said: Well, I don't know how it did it, but the Companion rejuvenated me, made me young again, like I am now.
Spock said: I prefer to reserve judgment on that part of your story, sir. Meanwhile, would you please explain exactly what this Companion of yours is?
Cochrane said: I told you, I don't know what it is. It exists, it lives, and I can communicate with it.
Mccoy said: That's a pretty far out story.
Kirk said: Mister Cochrane, do you have a first name?
Cochrane said: Zefram.
Kirk said: Zefram Cochrane of Alpha Centuri, the discoverer of the space warp?
Cochrane said: That's right, Captain.
Mccoy said: But that's impossible. Zefram Cochrane died a hundred and fifty years ago.
Spock said: The name of Zefram Cochrane is revered throughout the known galaxy. Planets were named after him. Great universities, cities.
Kirk said: Isn't your story a little improbable, Mister Cochrane?
Cochrane said: No, it's true. I was eighty seven years old when I came here.
Kirk said: You say this Companion found you and rejuvenated you? What were you doing in space at the age of eighty seven?
Cochrane said: I was tired, Captain. I was going to die, and I wanted to die in space. That's all.
Spock said: True, his body was never found.
Cochrane said: You're looking at it, Mister Spock.
Spock said: If so, you wear your age very well.
Mccoy said: How do you feel?
Nancy said: Terrible. How should I feel?
Mccoy said: You're running a little temperature. Perhaps you should lie down.
Nancy said: Doctor, will you please just leave me alone. It's the heat.
Mccoy said: All right. Try to relax. Jim, it's started, the fever. It's over a hundred, and it's climbing.
Kirk said: How long do we have?
Mccoy said: A matter of hours, that's all.
Kirk said: Mister Cochrane, you say you were brought here a hundred and fifty years ago? You don't look over thirty five.
Cochrane said: I haven't aged. The Companion sees to that.
Spock said: Captain. These instruments, they date from the time indicated. From your ship, Mister Cochrane?
Cochrane said: I cannibalised it. The food, water, gardens, everything else I need the Companion gives me. Apparently, it creates it out of the native elements.
Kirk said: You say you can communicate with it. Perhaps you can find out what we're doing here.
Cochrane said: I already know.
Kirk said: You wouldn't mind telling us?
Cochrane said: You won't like it.
Kirk said: I already don't like it.
Cochrane said: You're here to keep me company.
Kirk said: You mean you brought us here?
Cochrane said: No, the Companion did. I told it I'd die of loneliness. I thought it would release me. Instead, it brought you here.
Nancy said: No! No! No! That's disgusting! We're not animals! No! Oh, no! It's inhuman! No! No!
Kirk and McCoy take her to a bed and lie her down. McCoy gives her an injection.
Kirk said: Spock, run additional tricorder readings. Learn anything you can. Find me a weapon to use against this thing.
Spock said: You ask me to find a weapon. Do you intend to destroy it?
Kirk said: I intend to do whatever's necessary to get us off this planet and Commissioner Hedford to the hospital. If the Companion stands in the way, then we push it out of the way. Clear, Spock?
Spock said: Quite clear, Captain.
Kirk said: Very well. You have your orders. (Spock leaves) Mister Cochrane, if you left here, what would happen to you?
Cochrane said: I'd begin to age again, normally.
Kirk said: Do you want to leave here?
Cochrane said: Believe me, Captain, immortality consists largely of boredom. What's it like out there in the galaxy?
Kirk said: We're on a thousand planets and spreading out. We cross fantastic distances and everything's alive, Cochrane. Life everywhere. We estimate there are millions of planets with intelligent life. We haven't begun to map them. Interesting?
Cochrane said: How would you like to sleep for a hundred and fifty years and wake up in a new world?
Kirk said: It's all out there waiting for you, but we'll need your help to get away.
Cochrane said: You've got it.
Scene: Outside the shuttlecraft.
Spock is working when the Companion appears next to him. He reaches to touch it, and then is flung away. The electrics in the shuttlecraft all burn out.
Scene: Cochrane's home.
Kirk said: You seem to think this Companion of yours can do almost anything.
Cochrane said: I said it was very powerful.
Kirk said: Could it cure her?
Cochrane said: I don't know.
Kirk said: How do you communicate with it?
Cochrane said: It's on a non-verbal level, but I usually get my message across.
Kirk said: We've got to try. We're helpless. See if it can do something.
Scene: Outside Cochrane's home.
Kirk said: How do you do it?
Cochrane said: I just sort of clear my mind and it comes.
He walks to the edge of the garden then stands with his eyes closed. The Companion appears, then moves to envelope him.
Kirk said: Bones, what do you make of that?
Mccoy said: Almost a symbiosis of some kind, a sort of joining.
Kirk said: Exactly what I think. Not exactly like a pet owner speaking to a beloved animal, would you say? MCCOY: No, it's more than that.
Kirk said: Agreed. More like love.
The Companion vanishes, so Kirk and McCoy go over to Cochrane.
Mccoy said: Are you all right?
Cochrane said: Yes. It kind of drains me a little, but I'm all right.
Kirk said: Well?
Cochrane said: The Companion can't do anything to help Miss Hedford.
Kirk said: Then she'll die.
Cochrane said: If there's anything I could do to help, I would, and I will, but we can expect nothing from the Companion.
Scene: Outside the shuttlecraft.
Mccoy said: Spock! Are you all right?
Spock said: Yes. Quite all right, Doctor. A most fascinating thing happened. Apparently, the Companion imparted to me a rather quaint, old-fashioned electric shock of respectable voltage.
Mccoy said: It attacked you?
Spock said: Evidently. Unquestionably, a large part of its substance is simple electricity.
Mccoy said: Oh, yes. I'm not a scientist or a physicist, Mister Spock, but am I correct in assuming that anything that generates electricity can be shorted out?
Spock said: Quite correct, Doctor.
Scene: Cochrane's home.
Spock is demonstrating the device he has put on the table.
Spock said: Put this in the proximity of the Companion, throw this switch, and it will scramble every electrical impulse the creature can produce. It cannot fail.
Kirk said: It troubles you, Cochrane?
Cochrane said: The Companion saved my life. It's taken care of me all these years. We've been very close in a way that's hard to explain. I suppose I even have an affection for it.
Kirk said: It's also keeping you prisoner.
Cochrane said: I don't want it killed.
Spock said: We may simply render it powerless.
Cochrane said: But you don't know. You could kill it. I won't stand for that.
Kirk said: We're getting out of here, Cochrane. Face up to it. I'll do anything I have to to save all of our lives.
Cochrane said: I suppose from your point of view, you're right.
Mccoy said: We understand how you feel, Mister Cochrane, but it has to be done.
Cochrane said: All right. You want me to contact it?
Kirk said: Please. Outside.
Cochrane said: What was it they used to call it? The Judas goat? (leaves)
Spock said: There is some risk, Captain. We do not know the extent of its powers.
Kirk said: Nor it ours.
Scene: Outside Cochrane's home.
Cochrane 'calls' and the Companion comes just as before. When it has enveloped him, Kirk gives the word.
Kirk said: Now.
The jolt knocks Cochrane out and the Companion comes towards the dwelling, apparently angry.
Scene: Cochrane's home.
It enters, blows up Spock's contraption then attacks Kirk and Spock. They are rolling around on the floor inside the sparkly thing, clutching their throats.
Mccoy said: Stop it! You're killing them! Stop it, please! Stop it! You're choking them! Let them go. You're choking them! Stop it!
Outside, Cochrane hears McCoy's shouts, and somehow calms the Companion. It vanishes.
Mccoy said: You all right, Jim?
Kirk said: Yeah.
Mccoy said: Spock?
Spock said: All right.
They go to the doorway and see the Companion with Cochrane again.
Kirk said: Cochrane got it off of us, but I don't know whether he did us a favour or not.
Mccoy said: What kind of talk is that?
Kirk said: How do you fight a thing like that? I've got a ship up there somewhere, responsibility for four lives here, one of them dying because of me.
Mccoy said: It isn't your fault.
Kirk said: I'm in command, Bones. It makes it my fault. How do you fight a thing like that?
Mccoy said: Maybe you're a soldier so often that you forget you're also trained to be a diplomat. Why not try a carrot instead of a stick?
Kirk said: Spock.
Spock said: Yes, Captain?
Kirk said: The universal translator on the shuttlecraft. We can try that, talk to that thing.
Spock said: The translator is for use with more congruent life forms.
Kirk said: Adjust it, change it. The trouble with immortality is it's boring. Adjusting the translator will give you something to do.
Spock said: It is possible. If I could widen its pattern of reception
Kirk said: Right down your alley, Spock. Get it here and get to work. That thing is still out there. Better go that way.
Spock leaves, passing Nancy's bed
Kirk said: Any change?
Mccoy said: Yes, for the worse.
Ship's Log. Stardate 3219.8. Lieutenant Commander Scott recording in the absence of Captain Kirk. A shuttlecraft bearing the Captain, the first officer, Chief Surgeon McCoy, and Assistant Federation Commissioner Hedford is now definitely overdue for a rendezvous with the Enterprise. We are attempting to backtrack it.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Mister Scott. Computer central reports that we're coming up on the co-ordinates of the last established position of the shuttlecraft.
Scott said: Thank you, Lieutenant.
Sulu said: Steady. No, Mister Scott, bearing three ten mark thirty five just cleared. No antimatter residue.
Scott said: All scanners, spherical sweep. Range, maximum. They'll have to pick it up.
Uhura said: If the shuttlecraft powered away, Mister Scott, but if it were just towed?
Scott said: There'd still be traces of residual matter floating around, Lieutenant.
Sulu said: Bearing two ten mark forty. Strong particle concentration. We're on it, Mister Scott.
Scott said: Lay on that course. Maintain scanning.
Sulu said: Course laid in, sir. Particle density decreasing. Gone, sir. No readings.
Scott said: Steady as she goes, Mister Sulu.
Uhura said: What do you think it means, Mister Scott?
Scott said: The shuttlecraft was on schedule until it was shy five hours of rendezvous. Then something happened.
Uhura said: Well, I'd feel a lot better if it were a little more definite.
Scott said: It didn't wreck. There was no debris. There's no trace of expelled internal atmosphere, no residual radioactivity. Ah, it's. Something took over. Tractor beams maybe. Something. They dragged it away on the heading we're now on.
Uhura said: If there are no further traces, how are we going to follow them?
Scott said: We stay on this course, see what comes up.
Uhura said: It's a big galaxy, Mister Scott.
Scott said: Aye.
Scene: Cochrane's home.
Spock is working on the Universal Translator. It is basically a metal tube nearly a foot long, that can be held in the hand.
Cochrane said: What's the theory behind this device?
Kirk said: There are certain universal ideas and concepts common to all intelligent life. This device instantaneously compares the frequency of brainwave patterns, selects those ideas and concepts it recognises, and then provides the necessary grammar.
Spock said: Then it translates its findings into English.
Cochrane said: You mean it speaks?
Kirk said: With a voice or the approximation of whatever the creature is on the sending end. Not one hundred percent efficient, but nothing ever is. Ready, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Quite ready, Captain.
Kirk said: Mister Cochrane, call the Companion.
Scene: Outside Cochrane's home.
Cochrane summons the Companion.
Kirk said: Companion. (It leaves Cochrane) We wish to talk to you.
Companion said: How can we communicate? My thoughts, you are hearing them. This is interesting.
Kirk said: Feminine. No doubt about it.
Spock said: Yes. The matter of gender could change the entire situation.
Kirk said: I'm way ahead of you.
Spock said: Then it is not a zookeeper.
Kirk said: No. A lover. Companion. It is wrong to keep us here against our will.
Companion said: A man needs the company of his own kind, or he will cease to exist. He felt it to me.
Kirk said: One of us will cease to exist if we don't get her to a place where we can care for her.
Companion said: The man needs others of his species. That is why you are here. The man must continue.
Kirk said: Companion, try to understand. It is the nature of our species to be free, just as it is your nature to stay here. We will cease to exist in captivity.
Companion said: Your bodies have stopped their peculiar degeneration. There will be nothing to harm you. You will continue, and the man will continue. This is necessary.
Spock said: This is a marvellous opportunity to add to our knowledge. Ask it about its nature, its history.
Kirk said: This isn't a classroom. I'm trying to get us out of here.
Spock said: A chance like this may never come again. It could tell us so much.
Kirk said: This isn't the time. Companion, what you offer us is not continuation. It is non=existence. We will cease to exist. Even the man will cease to exist.
Companion said: Your impulses are illogical. This communication is useless. The man must continue. Therefore, you will continue. It is necessary.
She vanishes, and they all head back indoors.
Scene: Cochrane's home.
Cochrane said: Captain, why did you build that translator with a feminine voice?
Kirk said: We didn't.
Cochrane said: But I heard
Kirk said: The idea of male and female are universal constants, Cochrane. There's no doubt about it. The Companion is female.
Cochrane said: I don't understand.
Mccoy said: You don't? A blind man could see it with a cane. You're not a pet. You're not a specimen kept in a cage. You're a lover.
Cochrane said: I'm a what?
Spock said: Her attitude when she approaches you is profoundly different than when she contacts us. Her appearance is soft, gentle. Her voice is melodic, pleasing. I do not totally understand the emotion, but it obviously exists. The Companion loves you.
Cochrane said: Do you know what you're saying? For all these years, I've let something as alien as that crawl around inside me, into my mind, my feelings.
Kirk said: What are you complaining about? It kept you alive.
Cochrane said: That thing fed on me. It used me. It's disgusting.
Mccoy said: There's nothing disgusting about it. It's just another life form, that's all. You get used to those things.
Cochrane said: You're as bad as it is.
Spock said: Your highly emotional reaction is most illogical. Your relationship with the Companion has for one hundred and fifty years been emotionally satisfying, eminently practical, and totally harmless. It may indeed have been quite beneficial.
Cochrane said: Is this what the future holds? Men who have no notion of decency or morality? Maybe I'm a hundred and fifty years out of style, but I'm not going to be fodder for any inhuman monster. (leaves)
Spock said: Fascinating. A totally parochial attitude.
Nancy said: Doctor. Doctor.
Mccoy said: Right here, Miss Hedford.
Nancy said: I heard him. He was loved and he resents it.
Mccoy said: You just rest.
Nancy said: No. I don't want to die. I've been good at my job, but I've never been loved. Never. What kind of life is that? Not to be loved, never to have shown love? And he runs away from love. (cries)
Ship's log, stardate 3220.3. Lieutenant Commander Scott reporting in lieu of the Captain and the first officer. We are continuing our search for the missing shuttlecraft.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Approaching what seems to be an asteroid belt, sir. Scanners report approximately seven thousand bodies of sizes running from types A to N.
Scott said: Atmosphere count?
Sulu said: Approximately thirty four percent of the bodies of atmospherian types H to M.
Scott said: All right, then. We'll do it the hard way. All sensors set for life form registration. Automatic selection.
Uhura said: Mister Scott, there are thousands of them out there they could be on, if they're on any of them at all.
Scott said: That's right, Lieutenant. Thousands. And we'll look them over one by one.
Scene: Outside Cochrane's home.
Another contact session is in progress.
Kirk said: Companion, do you love the man?
Companion said: I do not understand.
Kirk said: Is he important to you, more important than anything? Is he as though he were a part of you?
Companion said: He is part of me. The man must continue.
Kirk said: He will not continue. He will cease to exist. By your feeling for him, you are condemning him to an existence he will find unbearable. He will cease to exist.
Companion said: He does not age. He remains forever.
Kirk said: You speak of his body. I speak of his spirit. Companion, inside the shelter, a female of our species is dying. She will not continue. That is what will happen to the man unless you release all of us.
Companion said: I do not understand.
Kirk said: Our species can only survive if we have obstacles to overcome. You take away all obstacles. Without them to strengthen us, we will weaken and die. You regard the man only as a toy. You amuse yourself with him.
Companion said: You are wrong. The man is the centre of all things. I care for him.
Kirk said: But you can't really love him. You haven't the slightest knowledge of love, the total union of two people. You are the Companion. He is the man. You are two different things. You can't join. You can't love. You may keep him here forever, but you will always be separate, apart from him.
Companion said: If I were human there can be love? (vanishes)
Mccoy said: What did you hope to gain by that, Jim?
Kirk said: Try to convince her of the hopelessness of it. Love sometimes expresses itself in sacrifice. I thought maybe if she loved him, she'd let him go.
Spock said: But she or it is inhuman, Captain. You cannot expect her to react like a human.
Kirk said: I tried.
Cochrane said: It's useless. I know.
Nancy said: (standing in the doorway) Zefram Cochrane.
Kirk said: Bones?
Mccoy said: I don't understand it. She's not sick at all.
Nancy said: We understand.
Cochrane said: It's her.
Kirk said: What?
Cochrane said: Don't you understand? It's the Companion.
Kirk said: Bones?
Mccoy said: She's perfectly healthy. Heart like a hammer, respiration normal, blood pressure normal. This is medically impossible.
Nancy said: We are here.
Kirk said: We?
Nancy said: Both of us. Those you knew as the Commissioner and the Companion. We are both here.
Spock said: Companion, you do not have the power to create life.
Nancy said: That is for the Maker of all things.
Spock said: Commissioner Hedford was dying.
Nancy said: That part of us was too weak to hold on. In a moment, there would have been no continuing. Now we're together.
Spock said: Then you are both here, in the one body?
Nancy said: We are one.
She goes to Cochrane, who takes a step back.
Nancy said: Zefram, we frighten you. We've never frightened you before. Loneliness. This is loneliness. Oh, what a bitter thing. Oh, Zefram, it's so sad. How do you bear it, this loneliness?
Kirk said: Spock, check out the shuttlecraft. Engine, communications, everything.
Nancy said: That will not be necessary, Captain. Your vehicle will operate as before, so will the communications device.
Cochrane said: You're letting us go?
Nancy said: We could do nothing now to stop you. You said we would not know love because we were not human. Now we are human. We'll know the change of days. We will know death. But to touch the hand of man, nothing is as important.
Cochrane said: You're very beautiful.
Nancy said: Part of me understands. Part does not. But it pleases me.
Cochrane said: I could explain many things.
Nancy said: Oh, let me walk, Zefram. Let me feel the earth against my feet. Let me feel the warmth of the sun on my face. You beside me. Let me feel these things.
Kirk said: Go ahead, Cochrane We have a few things to do.
Cochrane and Nancy walk off hand in hand.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Mister Scott, it's the Captain.
Scott said: Put him on. Lock on to his co-ordinates. Captain, this is Scotty. Are you all right?
Scene: Outside Cochrane's home.
Kirk said: Perfectly all right. Can you get a fix on us.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: The helm is computing your position now, Captain.
Sulu said: Course two twenty four mark twelve. ETA fifty seven minutes.
Scott said: We'll be there in 57 minutes, sir.
Scene: Outside Cochrane's home.
Kirk said: Very good. I'll continue transmitting. Assume standard orbit when you arrive. We'll transport up in the shuttlecraft.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: What happened, Captain?
Scene: Outside Cochrane's home.
Kirk said: Interesting story, Scotty. I can't tell you now because, quite frankly, I don't know how it's going to end. Kirk out.
Somewhere in the vicinity, Nancy is holding up her scarf to mimic how she saw Cochrane when she was a swirly thing.
Cochrane said: Everything will be an eye-opener to you. There's a thousand planets out there, a thousand races, and I'll show everything to you, soon as I learn my way around again. Maybe I can make up a little for everything you've done for me.
Nancy said: I can't go with you, Zefram.
Cochrane said: Of course you can. You have to.
Nancy said: My life emanates from this place. If I should leave it for more than a tiny march of days, I'll cease to exist. I must return, even as you must consume matter to maintain your life.
Cochrane said: You gave up everything to be human? But even if you stay here, you'll eventually die.
Nancy said: The joy of this hour. I am pleased.
Cochrane said: Well, I can't just fly away and leave you here.
Nancy said: You must be free, Zefram Cochrane.
Cochrane said: You saved my life, took care of me. You loved me. I never understood. I do now.
He kisses her.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: We're locked in, Captain. Standard orbit established. Shuttlecraft bay standing by to receive you.
Scene: Outside Cochrane's home.
Kirk said: Stand by, Scotty.
Cochrane and Nancy return.
Kirk said: The Enterprise is waiting, Mister Cochrane.
Cochrane said: I can't take her away from here. If I do, she'll die. If I leave her, she'll die of loneliness. I owe everything to her. I can't leave her. I love her. Is that surprising?
Spock said: Not coming from a human being. You are, after all, essentially irrational.
Kirk said: Think it over, Mister Cochrane. There's a whole galaxy out there waiting to honour you.
Cochrane said: I have honours enough.
Spock said: But you will age, both of you. There will be no immortality. You'll both grow old here and finally die.
Cochrane said: That's been happening to men and women for a long time. I've got the feeling it's one of the pleasanter things about being human, as long as you grow old together.
Kirk said: Are you sure?
Cochrane said: There's plenty of water here. The climate's good for growing things. I might try to plant a fig tree. A man's entitled to that, isn't he? It isn't gratitude, Captain. Now that I see her, touch her, I know that I love her. We'll have a lot of years together. They'll be happy ones.
Kirk said: All the best.
They shake hands, and Kirk walks away.
Cochrane said: Captain, don't tell them about me.
Kirk said: Not a word, Mister Cochrane.
Mccoy said: Jim, what about that war on Epsilon Canaris Three?
Kirk said: Well, I'm sure the Federation can find another woman somewhere who'll stop that war.