Amok Time
Stardate: 3372.7
Original Airdate: 15 Sep, 1967
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk has just climbed up a ladder to this deck when McCoy exits the turbolift.
Mccoy said: Oh, Captain. Got a minute?
Kirk said: A minute.
Mccoy said: It's Spock. Have you noticed anything strange about him?
Kirk said: No, nothing in particular. Why ?
Mccoy said: Well, it's nothing I can pinpoint without an examination, but he's become increasingly restive. If he were not a Vulcan, I'd almost say nervous. And for another thing, he's avoiding food. I checked and he hasn't eaten at all in three days.
Kirk said: That just sounds like Mister Spock in one of his contemplative phases.
Mccoy said: Miss Chapel.
Chapel said: (carrying a tray and sounding embarrassed) Doctor McCoy.
Mccoy said: Captain.
Chapel said: Captain.
Mccoy said: What's this?
Chapel said: Oh.
Mccoy said: Oh! Vulcan plomeek soup, and I'll bet you made it too. You never give up hoping, do you?
Chapel said: Well, Mister Spock hasn't been eating, Doctor, and I, I just happened to notice.
Mccoy said: It's all right. Carry on, Miss Chapel.
She turns and rings the bell on Spock's quarters. The door opens and she enters.
Kirk said: Bones, I'm a busy man.
Mccoy said: Jim, when I suggested to Spock that it was time for his routine check-up, your logical, unemotional first officer turned to me and said, you will cease to pry into my personal matters, Doctor, or I shall certainly break your neck.
Kirk said: Spock said that?
Spock said: What is this?
The door to his quarters opens and Chapel rushes out with a scream, just before the soup bowl hits the opposite wall.
Spock said: Poking and prying! If I want anything from you, I'll ask for it!
Everyone stops and stares as he come to his door.
Spock said: Captain, I should like to request a leave of absence on my home planet. On our present course you can divert to Vulcan with a loss of but two point eight light days.
Kirk said: Spock, what the devil is this all about?
Spock said: I have made my request, Captain. All I require from you is that you answer it. Yes or no.
Scene: Spock's quarters.
Kirk said: All right, Spock, let's have it.
Spock said: It is undignified for a woman to play servant to a man who is not hers.
Kirk said: I'm more interested in your request for shore leave. In all the years
Spock said: You have my request, Captain. Will you grant it or not?
Kirk said: In all the years that I've known you, you've never asked for a leave of any sort. In fact, you've refused them. Why now?
Spock said: Captain, surely I have enough leave time accumulated.
Kirk said: Agreed, but that isn't the question, is it? If there's a problem of some sort, illness in the family
Spock said: No. Nothing of that nature, Captain.
Kirk said: Then since we're headed for Altair Six, and since the shore facilities there are excellent
Spock said: No! I must. I wish to take my leave on Vulcan.
Kirk said: Spock, I'm asking you. What's wrong?
Spock said: I need rest. I'm asking you to accept that answer.
Kirk said: Bridge. Helm.
Sulu said: Yes, Captain?
Kirk said: Alter course to Vulcan. Increase speed to warp four.
Sulu said: Aye, sir.
Spock said: Thank you, Captain.
Kirk said: I suppose most of us overlook the fact that even Vulcans aren't indestructible.
He leaves.
Spock said: No. (looking at his shaking hand) We're not.
Captain's log, stardate 3372.7. On course, on schedule, bound for Altair Six via Vulcan. First Officer Spock seems to be under stress. He has requested and been granted shore leave. Ship surgeon McCoy has him under medical surveillance.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Captain, something's coming in on the Starfleet channel. Priority and urgent, sir.
Kirk said: Put it on audio over here, Lieutenant.
Uhura said: Message complete, sir. Switching over.
Starfleet said: To Captain, USS Enterprise from Starfleet Sector Nine. Inauguration ceremonies, Altair Six, have been advanced seven solar days. You are ordered to alter your flight plan to accommodate, by order of Komack, Admiral, Starfleet Command. Acknowledge.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura, acknowledge that message.
Uhura said: Aye, aye, sir.
Kirk said: Mister Chekov, compute course and speed necessary for compliance.
Chekov said: (a bit of a Russian accent) We'll have to head directly there at warp six, sir. Insufficient time to stop off at Vulcan.
Kirk said: Head directly for Altair Six. Sailor's luck, Mister Spock. Or, as one of Finagle's Laws puts it, 'Any home port the ship makes ill be somebody else's, not mine'. The new president of Altair Six wants to get himself launched a week early, so we have to be there a week early. Don't worry. I'll see that you get your leave as soon as we're finished.
Spock said: I quite understand, Captain.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Kirk is resting in the dark when he has an idea.
Kirk said: Bridge. Navigation.
Chekov said: Navigation. Chekov here.
Kirk said: Mister Chekov, how late will we arrive for the ceremonies if we increase speed to maximum and divert to Vulcan just long enough to drop off Mister Spock?
Chekov said: I don't understand, Captain.
Kirk said: How far behind schedule will diverting to Vulcan put us?
Chekov said: We're on course for Vulcan, Captain, as Mister Spock ordered.
Kirk said: Thank you, Mister Chekov. Kirk, out.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Mister Spock. Come with me, please.
Scene: Turbolift.
Kirk said: Deck five. You've changed course for Vulcan, Mister Spock. Why?
Spock said: Changed the course?
Kirk said: Do you deny it?
Spock said: No. No, by no means, Captain. It is quite possible.
Kirk said: Then why'd you do it?
Spock said: Captain, I accept on your word that I did it, but I do not know why, nor do I remember doing it. Captain, lock me away. I do not wish to be seen. I cannot. No Vulcan could explain further.
Kirk said: I'm trying to help you, Spock.
Spock said: Ask me no further questions. I will not answer.
Kirk said: I order you to report to the Sickbay.
Spock said: Sickbay?
Kirk said: Complete examination. McCoy's waiting.
Scene: Sickbay.
Spock wanders in like a man in a dream.
Mccoy said: Come in, Spock. I'm all ready for you.
Spock said: My orders were to report to Sickbay, Doctor. I have done so. And now I'll go to my quarters.
Mccoy said: My orders were to give you a thorough physical. In case you hadn't noticed, I have to answer to the same commanding officer that you do. Come on, Spock. Yield to the logic of the situation.
Spock said: Examine me, for all the good it'll do either of us.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: How do you figure it, Chekov? First we're going to Vulcan, then we're going to Altair, then we're headed to Vulcan again, and now we're headed back to Altair.
Chekov said: I think I'm going to get space sick.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Mccoy said: Jim, you've got to get Spock to Vulcan.
Kirk said: Bones, I will, I will. As soon as this mission is
Mccoy said: No! Now. Right away. If you don't get him to Vulcan within a week eight days at the outside, he'll die. He'll die, Jim.
Kirk said: Why must he die? Why within eight days? Explain.
Mccoy said: I don't know.
Kirk said: You keep saying that. Are you a doctor, or aren't you?
Mccoy said: There's a growing imbalance of body functions, as if in our bodies huge amounts of adrenalin were constantly being pumped into our bloodstreams. Now, I can't trace it down in my biocomps. Spock won't tell me what it is. But if it isn't stopped somehow, the physical and emotional pressures will simply kill him.
Kirk said: You say you're convinced he knows what it is?
Mccoy said: He does, and he's as tightlipped about it as an Aldebaran Shellmouth. No use to ask him, Jim. He won't talk.
Scene: Spock's quarters.
Spock is staring at the picture of a young girl on his monitor, but switches it off when the doorbell buzzes.
Spock said: Come.
Kirk said: Stay. McCoy has given me his medical evaluation of your condition. He says you're going to die unless something is done. What? Is it something only your planet can do for you? Spock! You've been called the best first officer in the fleet. That's an enormous asset to me. If I have to lose that first officer, I want to know why.
Spock said: It is a thing no out-worlder may know except those very few who have been involved. A Vulcan understands, but even we do not speak of it among ourselves. It is a deeply personal thing. Can you see that, Captain, and understand?
Kirk said: No, I do not understand. Explain. Consider that an order.
Spock said: Captain, there are some things which transcend even the discipline of the service.
Kirk said: Would it help if I told you that I'll treat this as totally confidential?
Spock said: It has to do with biology.
Kirk said: What?
Spock said: Biology.
Kirk said: What kind of biology?
Spock said: Vulcan biology.
Kirk said: You mean the biology of Vulcans? Biology as in reproduction? Well, there's no need to be embarrassed about it, Mister Spock. It happens to the birds and the bees.
Spock said: The birds and the bees are not Vulcans, Captain. If they were, if any creature as proudly logical as us were to have their logic ripped from them as this time does to us. How do Vulcans choose their mates? Haven't you wondered?
Kirk said: I guess the rest of us assume that it's done quite logically.
Spock said: No. No. It is not. We shield it with ritual and customs shrouded in antiquity. You humans have no conception. It strips our minds from us. It brings a madness which rips away our veneer of civilisation. It is the pon farr. The time of mating. There are precedents in nature, Captain. The giant eelbirds of Regulus Five, once each eleven years they must return to the caverns where they hatched. On your Earth, the salmon. They must return to that one stream where they were born, to spawn or die in trying.
Kirk said: But you're not a fish, Mister Spock. You're
Spock said: No. Nor am I a man. I'm a Vulcan. I'd hoped I would be spared this, but the ancient drives are too strong. Eventually, they catch up with us, and we are driven by forces we cannot control to return home and take a wife. Or die.
Kirk said: I haven't heard a word you've said, and I'll get you to Vulcan somehow.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Lieutenant, get me Admiral Komack at Starfleet Command, Sector Nine. Pipe it down to McCoy's office.
Uhura said: Starfleet Command. Yes, sir.
Chekov said: Mister Sulu, you don't think
Sulu said: Maybe you ought to plot a course back for Vulcan, just in case.
Scene: Spock's quarters.
Spock is playing his lyre when the intercom whistles.
Uhura said: Communication to Mister Spock. Lieutenant Uhura here. The captain asked me to
Spock said: Let me alone. Let me alone!
He pounds his desk monitor into a pulp.
Scene: Sickbay.
Komack said: Captain, you're making a most unusual request.
Kirk said: I'm aware of that, sir, but it's of the utmost importance. You must give me permission to divert to Vulcan.
Komack said: But you refuse to explain why it is so important.
Kirk said: I can't, sir, but believe me, I wouldn't make such a request
Komack said: Altair Six is no ordinary matter. That area is just putting itself together after a long interplanetary conflict. This inauguration will stabilise the entire Altair system. Our appearance there is a demonstration of friendship and strength which will cause ripples clear to the Klingon Empire.
Kirk said: Sir, the delay would be, at most, a day. I can hardly believe that
Komack said: You will proceed to Altair Six as ordered. You have your orders. Starfleet out.
Mccoy said: Well, that's that.
Kirk said: No, it's not. I know the Altair situation. We would be one of three starships. Very impressive, very diplomatic, but it's simply not that vital.
Mccoy said: You can't go off to Vulcan against Starfleet orders. You'll be busted
Kirk said: I can't let Spock die, can I, Bones? And he will if we go to Altair. I owe him my life a dozen times over. Isn't that worth a career? He's my friend. Bridge. Navigation.
Scene: Bridge.
Chekov said: Bridge. Navigation.
Scene: Sickbay.
Kirk said: Mister Chekov, lay in a course for Vulcan. Tell Engineering I want warp eight or better. Push her for all she'll take.
Nurse Chapel leaves Sickbay, beaming.
Scene: Bridge.
Chekov said: Course already plotted. Laying it in, sir.
Scene: Sickbay.
Kirk said: I see. Very well. Carry on, Mister Chekov. Kirk, out.
Scene: Spock's quarters.
Spock is lying on his bed, apparently asleep. Christine thinks about touching him and then goes to leave.
Spock said: Miss Chapel.
Chapel said: Yes, Mister Spock?
Spock said: I had a most startling dream. You were trying to tell me something, but I couldn't hear you. It would be illogical for us to protest against our natures. Don't you think?
Chapel said: I don't understand.
Spock said: Your face is wet.
Chapel said: I came to tell you that we are bound for Vulcan. We'll be there in just a few days.
Spock said: Vulcan. Miss Chapel.
Chapel said: My name is Christine.
Spock said: Yes, I know, Christine. Would you make me some of that plomeek soup?
Chapel said: Oh, I'd be very glad to do that, Mister Spock.
Scene: Turbolift.
Kirk said: Bridge.
Spock said: It is obvious that you have surmised my problem, Doctor. My compliments on your insight. Captain, there is a thing that happens to Vulcans at this time. Almost an insanity, which you would no doubt find distasteful.
Kirk said: Will I? You've been most patient with my kinds of madness.
Spock said: Then would you beam down to the planet's surface and stand with me? There is a brief ceremony.
Kirk said: Is it permitted?
Spock said: It is my right. By tradition, the male is accompanied by his closest friends.
Kirk said: Thank you, Mister Spock.
Spock said: I also request McCoy accompany me.
Mccoy said: I shall be honoured, sir.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Captain. We're standing by on Vulcan hailing frequencies, sir.
Kirk said: Open the channel, Lieutenant. Vulcan Space Central, this is the USS Enterprise requesting permission to assume standard orbit.
Vulcan said: USS Enterprise from Vulcan Space Central. Permission granted. And from all of Vulcan, welcome. Is Commander Spock with you?
Spock said: This is Spock.
Vulcan said: Standby to activate your central viewer, please.
Nurse Chapel enters.
Chapel said: Doctor, what's going on?
The viewscreen lights up with the image of a very beautiful woman.
T'Pring said: Spock, it is I.
Spock said: T'Pring, parted from me and never parted, never and always touching and touched. We meet at the appointed place.
T'Pring said: Spock, parted from me and never parted, never and always touching and touched. I await you.
Uhura said: She's lovely, Mister Spock. Who is she?
Spock said: She is T'Pring. My wife.
Scene: Vulcan.
The trio have beamed down onto a very red planet. Sky, ground, all shades of hot orange-red. Spock leads them into an area marked out by stone structures.
Spock said: This is the land of my family. It has been held by us for more than two thousand Earth years. This is our place of Koon-ut-kal-if-fee,
Mccoy said: He called it Koon-ut what?
Kirk said: He described it to me as meaning marriage or challenge. In the distant past, Vulcans killed to win their mates.
Mccoy said: They still go mad at this time. Perhaps it's the price they pay for having no emotions the rest of the time.
Kirk said: It's lovely. I wish the breeze were cooler.
Mccoy said: Yeah. Hot as Vulcan. Now I understand what that phrase means.
Kirk said: The atmosphere is thinner than Earth.
Spock strikes a gong.
Mccoy said: I wonder when his T'Pring arrives.
Spock said: The marriage party approaches. I hear them.
Kirk said: Marriage party? You said T'Pring was your wife.
Spock said: By our parents' arrangement. A ceremony while we were but seven years of age. Less than a marriage but more than a betrothal. One touches the other in order to feel each other's thoughts. In this way our minds were locked together, so that at the proper time, we would both be drawn to Koon-ut-kal-if-fee.
A jingling sound gets louder, and Spock strikes the gong again. Two men enter shaking contraptions with lots of bells, followed by a woman carried on a chair. T'Pring and others come behind her.
Kirk said: Bones, you know who that is? T'Pau. The only person to ever turn down a seat on the Federation Council.
Mccoy said: T'Pau. Officiating at Spock's wedding?
Kirk said: He never mentioned that his family was this important.
T'Pau's chair is placed on a dais, and Spock greets her. She gives him a quick mind-meld.
T'Pau said: Spock, are our ceremonies for outworlders?
Spock said: They are not outworlders. They are my friends. I am permitted this.
She gestures for them to approach.
Spock said: This is Kirk.
Kirk said: Ma'am.
T'Pau said: And thee are called?
Mccoy said: Leonard McCoy, ma'am.
T'Pau said: Thee names these out worlders friends. How does thee pledge their behaviour?
Spock said: With my life, T'Pau.
T'Pau said: What they are about to see comes down from the time of the beginning, without change. This is the Vulcan heart. This is the Vulcan soul. This is our way. Kah-if-farr.
Spock is about to strike the gong again, when T'Pring intervenes.
T'Pring said: Kal-if-fee!
Kirk said: What is it? What happened?
T'Pau said: She chooses the challenge.
Mccoy said: (pointing at T'Pau's bodyguard) With him?
T'Pau said: He acts only if cowardice is seen. She will choose her champion.
Kirk said: Spock?
T'Pau said: Do not attempt to speak with him, Kirk. He is deep in the plak-tow, the blood fever. He will not speak with thee again until he has passed through what is to come. If thee wishes to depart, thee may leave now.
Kirk said: We'll stay.
T'Pau said: Spock chose his friends well.
Mccoy said: Ma'am, I don't understand. Are you trying to say that she rejected him? That she doesn't want him?
T'Pau said: He will have to fight for her. It is her right. T'Pring, thee has chosen the kal-if-fee, the challenge. Thee are prepared to become the property of the victor?
T'Pring said: I am prepared.
T'Pau said: Spock, does thee accept the challenge according to our laws and customs?
A single nod. T'Pring looks at the young man who followed her in.
Kirk said: Think Spock can take him?
Mccoy said: I doubt it. Not in his present condition.
T'Pau said: T'Pring, thee will choose thy champion.
T'Pring said: As it was in the dawn of our days, as it is today, as it will be for all tomorrows, I make my choice. This one.
She steps past the expectant Stonn and points at Kirk.
Stonn said: No! I am to be the one. It was agreed.
T'Pau said: Be silent.
Stonn said: Hear me. I have made the ancient claim. I claim the right. The woman is
T'Pau said: Kroykah!
Stonn said: I ask forgiveness.
T'Pau said: Kirk? T'Pring is within her rights, but our laws and customs are not binding on thee. Thee are free to decline with no harm on thyself.
Spock said: T'Pau.
T'Pau said: Thee speaks?
Spock said: My friend does not understand.
T'Pau said: The choice has been made, Spock. It is up to him now.
Spock said: He does not know. I will do what I must, T'Pau, but not with him! His blood does not burn. He is my friend!
T'Pau said: It is said thy Vulcan blood is thin. Are thee Vulcan or are thee human?
Spock said: I burn, T'Pau. My eyes are flame. My heart is flame. Thee has the power, T'Pau. In the name of my fathers, forbid. Forbid! T'Pau. I plead with thee! I beg!
T'Pau said: Thee has prided thyself on thy Vulcan heritage. It is decided.
Kirk said: What happens to Spock if I decline?
T'Pau said: Another champion will be selected. Do not interfere, Kirk. Keep thy place.
Mccoy said: You can't do it, Jim.
Kirk said: I can't?
Mccoy said: No. She said their laws and customs were not binding on you.
Kirk said: And you said Spock might not be able to handle him. If I can knock Spock out without really hurting him
Mccoy said: In this climate? If the heat doesn't get you, the thin air will. You can't do it!
Kirk said: If I get into any trouble, I'll quit. And Spock wins, and honour is satisfied.
Mccoy said: Jim, listen, if you
Kirk said: Bones. He's my first officer and my friend. I disregarded Starfleet orders to bring him here. Another thing, that's T'Pau of Vulcan. All of Vulcan in one package. How can I back out in front of her?
T'Pau said: It is done. Kirk, decide.
Kirk said: I accept the challenge.
T'Pau said: Here begins the act of combat for possession of the woman, T'Pring. As it was at the time of the beginning, so it is now. Bring forth the lirpa.
They are presented with wicked-looking half moon blades set in a wooden shaft, with a counterweight at the other end.
T'Pau said: If both survive the lirpa, combat will continue with the ahn woon.
Kirk said: What do you mean, if both survive?
T'Pau said: This combat is to the death.
Kirk said: Now wait a minute, ma'am. Who said anything about a fight to the death?
Mccoy said: These men are friends. To force them to fight until one of them is killed
T'Pau said: I can forgive such a display only once. Challenge was given and lawfully accepted. It has begun. Let no one interfere.
And so the fight begins, first with a trial of brute strength, then a good swing by Spock slices open Kirk's tunic and cuts his chest. It is clear that the first officer will kill his captain, given the chance. When Kirk is down and unarmed, Spock goes in for the final blow.
Mccoy said: Spock! No!
And Kirk rolls away just in time, then disarms Spock.
T'Pau said: Kroykah!
Mccoy said: Is this Vulcan chivalry? The air's too hot and thin for Kirk. He's not used to it.
T'Pau said: The air is the air. What can be done?
Mccoy said: (holding up a hypo) I can compensate for the atmosphere and the temperature with this. At least it'll give Kirk a fighting chance.
T'Pau said: Thee may proceed.
Mccoy said: You're going to have to kill him, Jim.
Kirk said: Kill Spock? That's not what I came to Vulcan for, is it? What's that?
Mccoy said: It's a tri-ox compound. It'll help you breathe. Now be careful!
Kirk said: Sound medical advice.
T'Pau said: The ahn woon.
The bells sound, and both men are given long straps with weights and tassels on the ends. Spock demonstrates it use by lassoing Kirk's legs and knocking him down with it before holding it in the middle to use first as a flail, and finally to strangle his opponent.
T'Pau said: Kroykah!
MCCOY; Get your hands off of him, Spock! He's finished. He's dead.
T'Pau said: I grieve with thee.
Mccoy said: McCoy to Enterprise.
Uhura said: Enterprise. Lieutenant Uhura here.
Mccoy said: Have the transporter room stand by to beam up the landing party. (ends communication) As strange as it may seem, Mister Spock, you're in command now. Any orders?
Spock said: Yes. I'll follow you up in a few minutes. You will instruct Mister Chekov to plot a course for the nearest Starbase where I must surrender myself to the authorities. (the sound of a transporter off screen) T'Pring. Explain.
T'Pring said: Specify.
Spock said: Why the challenge, and why you chose my captain as your champion.
T'Pring said: Stonn wanted me, I wanted him.
Spock said: I see no logic in preferring Stonn over me.
T'Pring said: You have become much known among our people, Spock. Almost a legend. And as the years went by, I came to know that I did not want to be the consort of a legend. But by the laws of our people, I could only divorce you by the kal-if-fee. There was also Stonn, who wanted very much to be my consort, and I wanted him. If your Captain were victor, he would not want me, and so I would have Stonn. If you were victor you would free me because I had dared to challenge, and again I would have Stonn. But if you did not free me, it would be the same. For you would be gone, and I would have your name and your property, and Stonn would still be there.
Spock said: Logical. Flawlessly logical.
T'Pring said: I am honoured.
Spock said: Stonn. She is yours. After a time, you may find that having is not so pleasing a thing after all as wanting. It is not logical, but it is often true. Spock here. Stand by to beam up. Live long, T'Pau, and prosper.
T'Pau said: Live long and prosper, Spock.
Spock said: I shall do neither. I have killed my captain and my friend. Energize.
Scene: Sickbay.
Spock said: Doctor, I shall be resigning my commission immediately, of course.
Mccoy said: Spock, I
Spock said: So I would appreciate your making the final arrangements.
Mccoy said: Spock, I
Spock said: Doctor, please, let me finish. There can be no excuse for the crime of which I'm guilty. I intend to offer no defence. Furthermore, I shall order Mister Scott to take immediate command of this vessel.
Kirk said: Don't you think you better check with me first?
Spock said: Captain! Jim!
There's a big, big grin across his face, which fades when McCoy and Chapel's own smiles are noticed
Spock said: I'm pleased to see you, Captain. You seem uninjured. I am at something of a loss to understand it, however.
Kirk said: Blame McCoy. That was no tri-ox compound he shot me with. He slipped in a neural paralyser. Knocked me out, simulated death.
Spock said: Indeed.
Mccoy said: Nurse, would you mind, please?
Chapel leaves in a slight huff.
Mccoy said: Spock, what happened down there? The girl? The wedding?
Spock said: Ah, yes, the girl. Most interesting. It must have been the combat. When I thought I had killed the captain, I found I had lost all interest in T'Pring. The madness was gone.
Intercom whistle
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Captain Kirk. Message from Starfleet Command, top priority.
Scene: Sickbay.
Kirk said: Relay it, Lieutenant.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Response to T'Pau's request for diversion of Enterprise to planet Vulcan
Scene: Sickbay.
Uhura said: Hereby approved. Any reasonable delay granted. Komack, Admiral, Starfleet Command.
Kirk said: Well, a little late, but I'm glad they're seeing it our way. How about that T'Pau? They couldn't turn her down. Mister Chekov, lay in a course for Altair Six. Leave orbit when ready. Kirk out.
Mccoy said: There's just one thing, Mister Spock. You can't tell me that when you first saw Jim alive that you weren't on the verge of giving us an emotional scene that would have brought the house down. .
Spock said: Merely my quite logical relief that Starfleet had not lost a highly proficient captain.
Kirk said: Yes, Mister Spock. I understand.
Spock said: Thank you, Captain.
Mccoy said: Of course, Mister Spock, your reaction was quite logical.
Spock said: Thank you, Doctor.
Mccoy said: In a pig's eye!
Kirk said: Come on, Spock. Let's go mind the store.