The Apple
Stardate: 3715.3
Original Airdate: 13 Oct, 1967
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk, Spock, Chekov, Yeoman Landon and two guards have beamed down to study a new world.
Kirk said: Start your readings.
McCoy and two more guards beam down.
Mccoy said: Well, I just might stake out a claim and settle down here, Jim.
Kirk said: It is spectacular, isn't it?
Mccoy said: It's a shame to have to intrude.
Kirk said: Well, the last scout ship reported some pretty strange sensor readings. Starfleet wants it investigated and the inhabitants contacted. We do what we're told.
Spock said: The soil here is remarkably rich and fertile, Captain. Husbandry would be quite efficacious.
Kirk said: Are you sure about that?
Spock said: Oh, quite sure. Readings indicate the entire planet is covered with growth like this. Curious, even at the poles there's very little variation in temperature which maintains a planet-wide average of seventy six degrees.
Kirk said: I know. Almost impossible.
Chekov said: It makes me homesick. Just like Russia.
Mccoy said: More like the Garden of Eden, Ensign.
Chekov said: Of course, Doctor. The Garden of Eden was just outside Moscow. A very nice place. It must have made Adam and Eve very sad to leave.
Kirk said: Just outside Moscow. All right. There's a village about seventeen kilometres away on bearing two three two. We'll head that way.
A planet turns to face the away team, and a guard walks up to it.
Hendorff said: Captain.
The plant fires its stamens into his chest, and he falls.
Mccoy said: Dead.
Kirk said: What did somebody say? That paradise must've looked like this?
Captain's log, stardate 3715.3. While making a routine exploration of the unexplored Gamma Trianguli Six, one of my men has been killed by a poisonous plant.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: As soon as we get out of the way, beam the body up.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Aye, Captain. It's a shame about Hendorff.
Scene: Planet surface.
Scott said: We seem to have a problem here, too.
Kirk said: What is it?
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: We're losing potency in our antimatter pods. I don't think it's serious, but we're looking into it.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: What's causing it?
Scott said: I'm not sure, sir, but we've run measurements on the electromagnetic field of the planet, and they are a wee bit abnormal. That might have something to do with it.
Kirk said: But you say there's nothing to worry about?
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Well, sir, I didn't exactly say that.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: Well, stay on top of it. We've got a job to down here. We might as well finish it.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: I hear it's nice down there.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: Yeah, it's nice. If we're a little more careful, we shouldn't run into any more trouble.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: I could do with a nice walk in a garden with green leaves and grass.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: We'll do the walking, Scotty. You get on the antimatter pod. If it gets worse, let me know, we'll beam up. Kirk out.
Spock said: I find that most unusual, Captain.
Kirk said: Scotty will handle it. We've got a job to do. Turn up anything on your tricorder?
Spock said: Indeed. Subsurface vibrations for miles in all directions.
Kirk said: That's strange.
Spock said: Quite strong, fairly regular, artificially produced.
Kirk said: Mallory.
Mallory said: Yes, Captain?
Kirk said: We're heading for the village. Avoid contact with the humanoids. I want you and Marple to make a full reconnaissance. And be careful. There may be other dangers besides poisonous plants. Keep in constant communication.
Mallory said: Aye, aye, sir.
Spock said: Captain.
Kirk said: What is it?
Spock said: There's a humanoid hiding directly behind us, moving with remarkable agility, bearing one eight.
Kirk nods to a guard, and they go to flank their observer.
Chekov said: What is it, Mister Spock?
Spock said: A visitor. One wanting to retain his anonymity, I should say.
Martha said: All this beauty, and now Mister Hendorff dead, somebody watching us. It's frightening.
Chekov said: If you insist on worrying, worry about me. I've been wanting to get you in a place like this for a long time.
Kirk said: Mister Chekov, Yeoman Landon. I know you find each other fascinating, but we're not here to conduct a field experiment in human biology.
Chekov said: I was about to take some readings.
Spock said: Anything?
Kirk said: Whatever it is, it moves like a cat.
Mccoy said: Jim, I don't like this.
Kirk said: Neither do I. All hands. We've been watched, we'll probably be watched. We're moving out. Formation L.
They set off in single file, a guard in the lead and Chekov bringing up the rear.
Along the way, Spock notices a very flat rock and picks it up.
Spock said: Interesting. Extremely low specific gravity, some uraninite, hornblende, quartz. (breaks it in half) Fragile, good cleavage. An analysis should prove interesting.
He throws one half away, and it explodes when it hits the ground.
Kirk said: Would you mind being careful where you throw your rocks, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Obviously highly unstable, Captain. This could be a find of some importance. In large quantities, it could be a considerable source of power.
Kirk said: Garden of Eden, with land mines.
Spock puts the other piece of rock down very carefully, and they continue their route march. An occasional bush rustle indicates they are being watched.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Enterprise to Captain Kirk.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Scott said: Scott, sir. Our antimatter pods are completely inert.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: I couldn't stop it, but I know why.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: Why?
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Something from the surface. It's like a pail of water on a fire. A beam, maybe, or a transmission. And it's still on. I'm having it analysed, but it's like nothing I've seen before.
Scene: Planet surface.
Scott said: And it's pinpointed in the area of that village we located down there.
Kirk said: We're heading there now, Scotty. You need any help?
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: There's nothing you can do about it, sir.
Scene: Planet surface.
Scott said: There doesn't seem to be any immediate danger.
Kirk said: All right, Scotty. We'll try and find out what's going on down here. Kirk out.
Spock said: If Scott is correct about the force from the surface, it may have to do with the vibrations I read earlier.
Kirk said: Some kind of generator?
Spock said: If so, an immense one. Probably subterranean.
McCoy is scanning something.
Kirk said: What's that?
Mccoy said: Some of the thorns like those that killed Hendorff. See the stuff on the end? It's like saplin, only it's a thousand times stronger.
Kirk said: Peculiar stuff to find in paradise.
Spock said: (noticing a plant moving) Jim!
He pushes the Captain and McCoy out of the way, but takes the thorns in his own chest. KIRK: Spock! Spock! Security alert. Is he alive?
McCoy injects Spock.
Mccoy said: I filled him with enough masiform D to make the whole crew turn handsprings, and he's not responding. Got to get him back to the ship, Jim.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise.
Scott said: Scott here, sir.
Kirk said: We're beaming up. Notify transporter room. And make arrangements to pick up Mallory and Marple. They're scouting ahead of us.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Aye, aye, sir. Transporter room, stand by to beam up landing party.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: All hands.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Standing by, sir.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: Energise.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Energise.
Scene: Planet surface.
Three times the landing party start to dematerialise, and each time they fail to vanish.
Kirk said: Scotty, energise. Scotty, what's the matter?
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: We can't make transporter contact, sir. The entire system's inhibited. The way it is now, we couldn't beam up a fly.
Captain's log, supplementary, Our investigation of Gamma Trianguli Six has suddenly turned into a nightmare. We're being watched and followed, Mister Spock has been injured, and now we find we are unable to return to the ship.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: Scotty, is the transporter malfunction tied in with trouble you're having with the antimatter pods?
Scott said: I don't know, sir. I'll check it and get back with you. Scott out.
Spock starts to sit up.
Kirk said: Spock. Are you all right?
Spock said: Doctor McCoy's potion is acting like all his potions, turning my stomach. Other than that, I am quite well.
Mccoy said: If your blood were red instead of green, you wouldn't have an upset stomach.
Kirk said: Just what do you think you were trying to do?
Spock said: I surmised you were unaware of that plant, so I
Kirk said: Stepped in front and took the thorns yourself.
Spock said: I assure you, Captain, I had no intention of doing that. It was merely my own clumsiness prevented me which prevented me from moving out of the way.
Kirk said: I see. Well next time, just yell. I can step out of the way as quickly as the next man.
Spock said: I shall do so.
Kirk said: Trying to get yourself killed. Do you know how much Starfleet has invested in you?
Spock said: One hundred twenty two thousand two hundred
Kirk said: Never mind. But thanks. Kaplan, take the post.
Kaplan said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Not only is something after us, but it's after the ship as well.
Spock said: Captain, to affect the ship at this extreme range would require a highly sophisticated planetary defence system.
It goes dark.
Kirk said: Thirty seconds ago, there wasn't a cloud in the sky.
A lightning strike hits Kaplan, and he is burnt to ash instantly.
Kirk said: Come on!
They take cover, and the storm passes as quickly as it came. They find the smoldering remains of Kaplan.
Kirk said: Phasers. A beautiful day, Mister Spock. Not a cloud in the sky. Just like paradise. (The scouting party has reached a collection of round huts - very African.)
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Scene: Village.
Mallory said: Mallory here, Captain. I'm near the village. Co-ordinates, one one eight by two two zero.
Scene: Planet surface.
But Kirk only hears static and a faint voice.
Kirk said: Mallory. Mallory, you all right? Come in!
Scene: Village.
Mallory said: The village is primitive. Strictly tribal from the looks of it. And Captain, there's something else. Captain, come in.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: Mallory. Mallory, you all right? Mallory!
Spock said: Captain. Those co-ordinates are a short distance in that direction.
Kirk said: On the double.
They run off, sort of. Meanwhile Mallory is running for his life.
Mallory said: It's over there! That way! I never saw anything like
He steps on one of those exploding rocks.
Kirk said: Mallory! Marple, stand back! Watch it! The rocks! (kneeling by the body) Kaplan. Hendorff. I know Kaplan's family. Now Mallory.
Mccoy said: Jim, you couldn't have stopped any of this.
Kirk said: His father helped me get into the Academy.
Spock said: Captain. In each case, this was unavoidable.
Kirk said: I could've prevented all of it.
Spock said: I don't see how.
Kirk said: A walk in paradise, among the green grass and flowers. We should've beamed up at the first sign of trouble.
Spock said: You are under orders to investigate this planet and this culture.
Kirk said: I also have the option to disregard those orders if I consider them overly hazardous. This isn't that important a mission, Spock. Not worth the lives of three of my men. I drop my guard for a minute because I like the smell of growing things, and now three men are dead. And the ship's in trouble.
Spock said: No one has ever stated that Starfleet duty was particularly safe. You've followed the correct and logical course, done everything a commander could do. Self-recriminations (he pauses) Captain, our friend is back.
Kirk said: Marple, Chekov, at attention. Gentlemen, something or someone is behind that rock. I want it. Marple, cut around the rock to your right. Make a loud noise. Be careful. (Marple leaves) Spock, you and Chekov create a diversion and make it loud.
Spock said: Mister Chekov, your tricorder readings are totally inefficient!
Chekov said: Mind your own business, sir! For your information, I have a very high efficiency rating.
Spock said: Ensign, I will not have you address me in that tone of voice!
Chekov said: What do you want, violence?
Kirk catches their observer, and hits him as he tries to run away. To his astonishment, the white-haired male begins to cry.
Kirk said: I won't hurt you. Do you understand? I won't hurt you.
Akuta said: You struck me. With your hand.
Kirk said: Well, I won't strike you again. You've been following us, watching us. Why?
Akuta said: I am the eyes of Vaal. He must see.
Kirk said: Who is Vaal?
Akuta said: Vaal is Vaal. He is everything.
Kirk said: Do you have a name?
Akuta said: I am Akuta. I am the leader of the feeders of Vaal.
Spock and the others arrive.
Kirk said: They're not going to hurt you. I promise you. Akuta, Akuta, we come in peace. We would like to speak to this Vaal.
Akuta said: Akuta alone speaks to Vaal. I am the eyes and the voice of Vaal. It is Vaal's wish.
Spock said: Captain, this is fascinating. If you will permit me, sir?
Akuta has metal wires sticking out behind from behind his ears.
Kirk said: Antennae?
Akuta said: They are my ears for Vaal. They were given to me in the dim time so the people could understand his commands and obey.
Kirk said: You speak of the people of Vaal. Are they nearby?
Akuta said: We are close to Vaal so we may serve him. I shall take you there.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Enterprise to Captain Kirk.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Condition red. Condition red. Captain, something has grabbed us from the planet surface
Scene: Planet surface.
Scott said: Like a giant tractor beam, and we can't break loose.
Scene: Bridge.
Kyle said: It's no use, Mister Scott. We're just barely holding our own.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: Scotty, are the warp drives still out?
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Aye, sir. All we have is impulse power.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: Put it on maximum. Full emergency circuits.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: They're all on, Captain.
Kirk said: Status, are you still holding?
Scott said: Kyle?
Kyle said: No, sir. We're slipping.
Scott said: Computer banks, Kyle. Feed in a rate, get me a figure. We might be able to pull out with warp drive, but without it
Scene: Planet surface.
Scott said: We're like a fly on fly paper. Even worse
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: We're starting to lose ground. Hurry up on that figure, Kyle.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: Maintain full reverse thrust against the pull. Put a team on that warp drive. Get it working.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: I've done that, Captain. They haven't been able to do a thing. (Kyle hands him a PADD) It's no good, Captain. With maximum thrust against the pull
Scene: Planet surface.
Scott said: We'll only be able to maintain full power for sixteen hours, then we burn up for sure.
Kirk said: Scotty, you're my Chief Engineer. You know everything about that ship there is to know. More than the men who designed it. If you can't get those warp engines working
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: You're fired.
Scott said: I'll do everything there is to do, sir. Scott out.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: Tell me about Vaal.
Akuta said: All the world knows about Vaal. He causes the rains to fall and the sun to shine. All good comes from Vaal.
Kirk said: Take me to him. I wish to speak to him.
Akuta said: I shall take you to him, but he will not speak to you. He speaks only to me.
Kirk said: I'll take my chances.
Scene: Vaal.
Akuta leads them to a giant rock serpent head with green and yellow eyes, sticking out of a cliff. It looks like there is a fire in it's throat.
Akuta said: Vaal.
Captain's log, stardate 3715.6. We have been introduced to Vaal. Evidently the source of the planet's power emanations and possibly the force that threatens both us and our ship.
Scene: Vaal.
Spock said: Fascinating. A very high order of workmanship, very ancient, generating great power.
Kirk said: But this is not the centre, Mister Spock.
Spock said: No, Captain. The centre is deep in the earth beneath us. This is an access point. It would also seem to be a
He steps forward and is flung back.
Kirk said: A force field?
Spock said: Obviously.
Kirk said: You all right?
Spock said: Yes, quite. It extends some thirty feet beyond the figure in all directions. Conventional in composition, and quite formidable.
Kirk said: Akuta, how do you talk to Vaal?
Akuta said: Vaal calls me. Only then.
Kirk said: Well, we can't get to it. We can't talk to it unless it wants to talk to us.
Akuta said: Vaal sleeps now. When he is hungry, you may be able to speak with him, if he desires it.
Kirk said: When does he get hungry?
Akuta said: Soon. Come. We will give you food and drink. If you are tired, you may rest.
Scene: Village.
Akuta said: These are the people of Vaal.
Everyone is grown up, with white hair and wearing a simple cotton sarong.
Kirk said: Where are the others?
Akuta said: There are no others.
Kirk said: The children.
Akuta said: Children? You use unknown words to me.
Kirk said: Little ones like yourselves. They grow.
Akuta said: Replacements. None are necessary. They are forbidden by Vaal.
Martha said: But when a man and woman fall in love,
Akuta said: Love. Strange words. Children. Love. What is love?
Martha said: Love is when two people are
Chekov demonstrates by putting his arm around her waist.
Akuta said: Ah, yes. The holding, the touching. Vaal has forbidden this.
Mccoy said: Well, there goes paradise.
Akuta said: These people, are from another place. They have come among us. Welcome them!
All said: Welcome to Vaal.
Sayana said: (placing the equivalent of a lei around Kirk's wrist.) Our homes are open to you.
Kirk said: Well, thank you. It does something for you.
Spock said: Yes, indeed it does, Captain. It makes me uncomfortable.
Sayana said: I am Sayana. You have a name?
Spock said: Yes. Spock. I am Spock.
Sayana said: (amid general merriment) Spock?
Spock said: I fail to see what they find so amusing.
Akuta said: Come!
Scene: Hut.
Akuta said: This house is your house. I will send you more food and drink. You are welcome in the place of Vaal.
Chekov said: Now we're welcome. A while ago this whole planet was trying to kill us. It doesn't make sense.
Kirk said: Nothing makes sense down here. Kirk to Enterprise.
Scott said: Scott here.
Kirk said: Status report, Scotty.
Scene: Planet surface.
Scott said: No change, Captain. The orbit is decaying along computed lines. No success with the warp drive. We're going down and we can't stop it.
Scene: Hut.
Kirk said: I'm sick of hearing that word can't. Get that ship out of there.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Sir, we're doing everything within engineering reason.
Scene: Hut.
Kirk said: Then use your imagination. Tie every ounce of power the ship has into the impulse engines. Discard the warp drive nacelles if you have to, and crack out of there with the main section, but get that ship out of there!
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Sir, I'm going to switch over everything but the life-support systems and boost the impulse power, but that's just about as dangerous.
Scene: Hut.
Kirk said: Do it. Kirk out.
Mccoy said: Incredible.
Kirk said: Report.
Mccoy said: I just ran a thorough check on the natives, and there's a complete lack of harmful bacteria in their systems, no decalcification, no degeneration of tissue, no arteriosclerosis. In simple terms, Jim, they're not growing old, and I can't begin to tell you how old they are, twenty years or twenty thousand years.
Kirk said: I see. Opinion.
Spock said: Quite possible. It checks with my atmospheric analysis. Their atmosphere completely negates any harmful effects from their sun.
Kirk said: Add to that a simple diet, a perfectly controlled temperature, no natural enemies, apparently no vices, no replacements needed. Maybe it is paradise after all.
A gong sounds outside, and all the villagers are heading off towards Vaal.
Scene: Village.
Kirk said: Mister Spock.
Scene: Vaal.
The villagers are walking into the serpent's mouth and depositing plates of fruit down it's throat. Kirk and Spock watch from behind a shrub.
Spock said: Apparently, our hypothesis is correct. There is no living being there. It is a machine, nothing more.
Kirk said: Well, the field's down, people are going in. Let's see what kind of luck we have.
But as soon as they stand, the eyes light up and there is a rumble of thunder.
Kirk said: That's not the way.
Spock said: Evidently not. This is no ordinary machine, Captain. It may well possess a rudimentary intelligence.
Kirk said: But it needs to eat. Frequently. So it can't have any great power reserves.
Spock said: That may not be of any help. The Enterprise has only ten hours left in which to break free.
Kirk said: What happens if Vaal weakens around feeding time? Spock, check the electromagnetic section of the astrophysics lab. Get an estimate of the total amount of energy being expended against the ship. Have them measure it hour by hour.
Spock said: Acknowledged.
McCoy joins them.
Mccoy said: What's going on, Jim?
Kirk said: Mess call.
Spock said: In my view, a splendid example of reciprocity.
Mccoy said: It would take a computerised Vulcan mind such as yours to make that kind of a statement.
Spock said: Doctor, you insist on applying human standards to non-human cultures. I remind you that humans are only a tiny minority in this galaxy.
Mccoy said: There are certain absolutes, Mister Spock, and one of them is the right of humanoids to a free and unchained environment, the right to have conditions which permit growth.
Spock said: Another is their right to choose a system which seems to work for them.
Mccoy said: Jim, you're not just going to stand by and be blinded to what's going on here. These are humanoids, intelligent. They need to advance and grow. Don't you understand what my readings indicate? There's been no progress here in at least ten thousand years. This isn't life. It's stagnation.
Spock said: Doctor, these people are healthy and they are happy. What ever you choose to call it, this system works, despite your emotional reaction to it.
Mccoy said: It might work for you, Mister Spock, but it doesn't work for me. Humanoids living so they can service a hunk of tin.
Kirk said: Gentlemen, I think this philosophical argument can wait until our ship's out of danger. Kirk here.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Scotty, sir. We have a reading on the power source Mister Spock requested. When we first monitored, it was generating alternating cycles totalling one hundred to the twentieth power Waltham units.
Scene: Vaal.
Kirk said: Did it maintain, Scotty?
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: No, sir. Power's dropping bit by bit. Nominal, but a definite drain.
Scene: Vaal.
Kirk said: Good. Keep monitoring. How are you coming along with the circuit switchover?
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: We're putting everything but the kitchen sink into impulse power, sir. It will take us another eight hours to complete the work.
Scene: Vaal.
Kirk said: That's cutting it a bit fine, Scotty.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Aye, but if we don't break out, I'd rather we didn't have to wait too long for the end of it.
Scene: Vaal.
Kirk said: Kirk out.
Scene: Hut.
Martha said: Every time I think of the Enterprise burning up and us
Kirk said: Yeoman, you're wasting energy.
Martha said: Captain, we're trapped,
Kirk said: Sit down, and have something to eat.
Martha said: The Enterprise is up there
Kirk said: That hasn't happened yet. I wonder what would happen? Yeoman, speculate. What would happen if someone on this planet died?
Martha said: But they can't. You said that Vaal takes care of them.
Kirk said: Accidents happen.
Martha said: Yes, I suppose if someone were to fall off a cliff or something, that might upset the balance of the population. Then they would need a replacement.
Kirk said: They'd need a replacement. Opinion, Mister Spock?
Spock said: I see no alternative.
Martha said: But these people, I mean, if they don't know anything about. What I mean is, they don't seem to have any natural er. I mean, how is it, done?
Kirk said: Mister Spock? You're the science officer. Why don't you explain it to the young lady.
Spock said: Well, I believe it's safe, (cough) safe to assume that they would receive the necessary instructions.
Mccoy said: From a machine? That I'd like to see.
Scene: Vaal.
Akuta said: I understand, Vaal. It shall be done.
Scene: Village.
Chekov and Landon are taking a romantic stroll together.
Martha said: You know, if it weren't for Vaal this place would be a paradise.
They are watched by a local couple
Chekov said: Any place we can be together is paradise.
Martha said: Pav, can the ship really break away?
Chekov said: I don't know.
Martha said: Will we be able to get back aboard?
Chekov said: Martha, I don't know. But if we do have to stay here, would it be so very bad?
Martha said: No, not if you're with me.
They kiss .
Sayana said: Why do you look like that?
Makora said: The way they touched. I do not understand.
Sayana said: They were not angry. I think it was pleasant for them.
Makora said: But what is to be gained? It is not a dance. It gathers no food. It does not serve Vaal. But it did seem as though it was, pleasant to them.
He kisses the girl's cheek.
Sayana said: It is pleasant, Makora.
Makora said: Yes. They touched in this way.
They kiss properly and there is a roll of thunder.)
Makora said: Vaal! He is angry.
Akuta said: The law is plain. I have given you the words of Vaal. Do you beg the lightning to strike?
Sayana said: We saw the strangers, the two of them, do this thing.
Akuta said: You copied them?
Makora said: We meant no harm.
Akuta said: Vaal speaks truly to me. The newcomers are a danger. Tell the men of Vaal to meet me in the clear place when the strangers are asleep. It is Vaal's own words.
Scene: Planet surface.
(The men are waiting for Akuta. He arrives with a blue melon and a very big stick. AKUTA: Vaal has spoken to me. His words are true. Hear them. We are to kill the strangers.
Makora said: Kill, Akuta? We do not understand.
Akuta said: It is a thing to do, like, like feeding Vaal. Vaal explained it to me. I will show you. This (the melon) is the head of one of the strangers. Find a heavy stick. Come up from behind the stranger and do this.
He swings his stick and smashes the melon to pieces.
Akuta said: It is a simple thing. It is the word of Vaal. It will be done to all of them when the sun returns in the morning.
But he looks worried.
Scene: Hut.
Spock said: I am concerned, Captain. This may not be an ideal society, but it is a viable one.
Kirk said: Bones was right. These people aren't living, they're existing. They don't create, they don't produce, they don't even think. They exist to service a machine.
Spock said: If we do what it seems we must, in my opinion it will be in direct violation of the non-interference directive.
Kirk said: These are people, not robots. They should have the opportunity of choice. We owe it to them to interfere.
Spock said: Starfleet Command may think otherwise.
Kirk said: I'll take my chances. Why don't you have a look around? Kirk to Enterprise. Mister Scott?
Spock leaves
Scott said: Here, sir.
Kirk said: How's it going, Scotty?
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Almost ready, sir. We need half an hour yet.
Scene: Hut.
Kirk said: You realise that within forty five minutes, the ship will be pulled down into the atmosphere?
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: I know that. As you said, that's cutting things fine.
Scene: Hut.
Kirk said: Yes, I
Spock said: Captain!
Kirk said: Kirk out. What is it?
Spock said: Disturbing. The people of Vaal seem to have disappeared.
Scene: Vaal.
Spock said: Force field, Captain.
Kirk said: Vaal, we are on a peaceful mission. We mean no harm to you or your people.
The sky darkens.
Spock said: Variation in impulses, Captain. I believe it is reading us. A strong jump on all wavelengths.
Lightning threatens.
Kirk said: Let's get out of here!
But Spock is hit, with a nice hole in the back of his tunic.
Scene: Village.
Kirk said: Bones!
Mccoy said: Second degree burns. Not serious, but I'll bet they smart.
Spock said: Doctor, you have an unsurpassed talent for understatement.
Kirk said: Marple!
The red-shirt is struck by Akuta. The other men are easily eluded, disarmed and dealt with.
Kirk said: Put them in the hut. Find out where the women are. Put them in there, too.
Spock said: The good doctor was concerned that the Vaalians achieved true human stature. I submit there is no cause for worry. They've taken the first step. They've learned to kill.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: We're ready here, sir. All available power has been channelled into the impulse engines. We have twelve minutes before entering atmosphere.
Scene: Village.
Kirk said: All right, Scotty, put her in full reverse. Get her out of there.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Full reverse, Mister Kyle, all engines.
Kyle said: Sir!
Scott said: Captain, we're doing it. We're pulling away!
Scene: Village.
Kirk said: Scotty, what happened?
Kyle said: It's no good, sir. There's only a few systems responding.
Scene: Village.
Scott said: Captain, we've pulled away a little. We gained maybe an hour, but we blew almost every system in the ship doing it.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: There's nothing left to try again. I guess you'll have to fire me, sir.
Scene: Village.
Kirk said: You're fired. Four hundred people
Mccoy said: Jim
Kirk said: They'll die because I couldn't see a warning sign. I had to follow orders, always orders.
The gong sounds, and the people of Vaal try to leave the hut.
Chekov said: Get back in there.
Mccoy said: Fine time to ring the dinner bell.
Chekov said: Get back in there. Now!
Kirk said: Bones, that's it. Stay with Chekov. Keep those people from feeding Vaal. Don't let them feed Vaal. Keep them in the hut. Mister Spock.
They head off through the shrubs.
Kirk said: Scotty, do you still have phaser power?
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Aye, but what
Kirk said: Lock all banks on the co-ordinates of the energy field located down here.
Scene: Vaal.
KIRK; On my command, commence firing on those co-ordinates.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Aye, sir, but they won't penetrate that force field.
Scene: Vaal.
Kirk said: If my guess is correct, they won't have to. Stand by.
Scene: Hut.
Akuta said: Vaal calls to us. Let us go to him. He hungers. Please.
Scene: Vaal.
Spock said: Readings are getting weaker, Captain. Wide variation in energy transmissions, as though Vaal were trying to draw on other sources. KIRK: Tapping its energy cells.
Spock said: I would assume so.
Kirk said: Good. The ship's pulling away must have weakened it considerable. It has to be fed, but its reserve capacity could hold out for days.
Spock said: If it had to reinforce its energy field to ward off a phaser attack, it would have to draw more heavily on its reserves.
Kirk said: My plan exactly. Scotty.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Scott here, sir.
Scene: Vaal.
Kirk said: Scotty, commence firing and maintain.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Mister Kyle, all phasers commence firing.
Scene: Vaal.
Two red beams hit the edge of the force field and start turning it green.
Spock said: A tremendous upsurge in generated power, Captain. Obviously Vaal is trying to reinforce his energy field.
Kirk said: Good. Let's see how long he can do it.
The green glow arrives at the snake's head as the storm clouds gather. The lightning flashes, and small explosions go off inside Vaal. Smoke comes out of its mouth. Finally, the eyes stop glowing and the throat goes dark.
Kirk said: Scotty, cease fire.
The sun breaks through the clouds again.
Spock said: No power generation at all, Captain. Vaal is dead.
Kirk said: Mister Scott, status report.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Tractor beam gone. Potency returning to antimatter pods.
Scene: Vaal.
Scott said: I'll have all engineering sections working on the circuits immediately. Transporter'll be ready in an hour.
Kirk said: Scotty, you're re-hired. As soon as the transporter's fixed, form an engineering detail with full analytical equipment and beam them down. Kirk out. Chekov, Bones. Let those people go.
Akuta said: But it was Vaal who put the fruit on the trees, caused the rain to fall. Vaal cared for us.
Kirk said: You'll learn to care for yourselves, with our help. And there's no trick to putting fruit on trees. You might enjoy it. You'll learn to build for yourselves, think for yourselves, work for yourselves, and what you create is yours. That's what we call freedom. You'll like it, a lot. And you'll learn something about men and women, the way they're supposed to be. Caring for each other, being happy with each other, being good to each other. That's what we call love. You'll like that, too, a lot. You and your children.
Sayana said: What are children?
Kirk said: The little ones? Look like you? Just go on the way you're going. You'll find out.
Scene: Corridor.
Mccoy said: I don't agree with you at all, Mister Spock.
Spock said: That's not unusual, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Jim, I want you to hear this.
Spock said: Captain, I'm not at all certain we did the correct thing on Gamma Trianguli Six.
Mccoy said: We put those people back on a normal course of social evolution. I see nothing wrong in that.
Kirk said: Well, that's a good object lesson, Mister Spock. It's an example of what can happen when a machine becomes too efficient, does too much work for you.
Spock said: Captain, you are aware of the biblical story of Genesis.
Kirk said: Yes, of course I'm aware of it. Adam and Eve tasted the apple and as a result were driven out of paradise.
Spock said: Precisely, Captain, and in a manner of speaking, we have given the people of Vaal the apple, the knowledge of good and evil if you will, as a result of which they too have been driven out of paradise.
Kirk said: Doctor, do I understand him correctly? Are you casting me in the role of Satan?
Spock said: Not at all, Captain.
Kirk said: Is there anyone on this ship who even remotely looks like Satan?
McCoy and Kirk walk around Spock. McCoy is gazing intently at his ears.
Spock said: I am not aware of anyone who fits that description, Captain.
Kirk said: No, Mister Spock. I didn't think you would be.