Who Mourns For Adonais?
Stardate: 3468.1
Original Airdate: 22 Sep, 1967
Scene: Bridge.
Carolyn said: Here's the report on Pollux Five, Captain. This entire system has been almost the same. A strange lack of intelligent life on the planets. It bugs the percentages.
Kirk said: Bugs the? Well, carry out the standard procedures on Pollux Four.
Carolyn said: Aye, sir.
Mccoy said: Lieutenant, you look a bit tired this morning.
Carolyn said: Well, I was up all night working on this report, sir.
Scott said: Well in that case, there's nothing like a wee bit of coffee to get you back in shape. Join me, Carolyn?
Carolyn said: All right, Scotty. Just let me give this to Mister Spock.
Kirk said: Bones, could you get that excited over a cup of coffee?
Mccoy said: Even from here I can tell his pulse rate's up.
Scott said: Gentlemen. Come along, my dear.
Mccoy said: I'm not sure I like that, Jim.
Kirk said: Why, Bones? Scotty's a good man.
Mccoy said: And he thinks he's the right man for her, but I'm not sure she thinks he's the right man. On the other hand, she's a woman. All woman. One day she'll find the right man and off she'll go, out of the service.
Kirk said: I like to think of it not so much losing an officer as gaining
Scott said: Come along.
He and Carolyn enter the turbolift.
Kirk said: Actually, I'm losing an officer.
Chekov said: Entering standard orbit around Pollux Four, sir.
Kirk said: Cartographic Detail, stand by.
Uhura said: Standing by, sir.
Kirk said: Preliminary reports, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Pollux Four. Class M type planet, oxygen and nitrogen atmosphere. Sensors indicate no life forms. Approximate age four billion years. Judged no reason for contact. In all respects, quite ordinary, Captain.
Kirk said: Cartographic Sections, implement standard orders.
Uhura said: All cartographic standards full automatic.
Sulu said: Captain?
Mccoy said: What in the name of?
Where there was originally an image of a nice blue and white planet there is now a .... hand?
Kirk said: Analysis, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Momentarily.
Chekov said: Am I seeing things?
Sulu said: Not unless I am, too. Captain, that thing's a giant hand.
Kirk said: What is it, Mister Spock? Is it a hand?
Spock said: Negative, Captain. Not living tissue.
Kirk said: A trick, then? A projection?
Spock said: Not a projection, sir. A field of energy.
Kirk said: Hard about.
Sulu said: Hard about. We can't seem to get away from it.
Uhura said: It's almost as if it means to grab us.
Kirk said: Reverse all engines.
Sulu said: All engines reverse.
Everyone is thrown forward as the ship is grabbed by the hand and stopped in its tracks.
Sulu said: We're dead still, Captain. Helm doesn't answer. We can't move.
Captain's log, stardate 3468.1. While approaching Pollux Four, a planet in the Beta Geminorum system, the Enterprise has been stopped in space by an unknown force of some kind.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Lieutenant, relay our position and circumstances to Starbase Twelve immediately.
Uhura said: Aye, aye, sir.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu try rocking the ship. Full impulse power forward and back.
Sulu said: Aye, aye, sir.
Uhura said: Damage report coming in, Captain. Situation under control. Minor damage, stations three, seven, and nineteen.
Mccoy said: Sickbay reports five minor injuries, all being treated.
Kirk said: Thank you. Mister Sulu?
Sulu said: Applying thrust, sir. No results, Captain. We're stuck tight.
Kirk said: Mister Spock. Status.
Spock said: The ship is almost completely encircled by the field. It resembles a conventional force field but on unusual wavelengths. Despite its appearance, that of a human appendage, it is definitely not living tissue. It is energy.
Kirk said: Thank you. Mister Sulu. Our forward tractor beams, adjust to repel.
Sulu said: Aye, aye, sir. Standing by.
Kirk said: Activate.
Sulu said: Ineffective, Captain. There doesn't seem to be anything to push against.
Spock said: Captain, a most curious development on scanner five seven.
Kirk said: Let's all take a look at it, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Screen on, Captain.
Now a face appears in space, a male human wearing a laurel wreath.
Uhura said: Activity on hailing channel three, sir.
KIRK; Put it on audio, Lieutenant.
Apollo said: The eons have passed and what has been written has come about. You are most welcome, my beloved children. Your places await you.
Kirk said: Response frequencies, Lieutenant.
Uhura said: Calculated. Channel open, sir.
Apollo said: You have left your plains and valleys and made this bold venture. So it was in the beginning. You have made me proud. Now you can rest.
Kirk said: This is Captain James T. Kirk, commanding the USS Enterprise. Please identify yourself.
Apollo said: We shall remember together. We shall drink the sacramental wine. There shall be the music of the pipes. The long wait has ended.
Kirk said: Are you responsible for stopping the ship?
Apollo said: Yes. I caused the wind to withdraw from your sails.
Kirk said: Give it back, then we'll talk.
Apollo said: It has been five thousand years. Have you learned no patience in that time?
Kirk said: I don't know who or what you are, but I must warn you we have the power to defend ourselves. If you value your safety, release this ship.
Apollo said: You have the same fire. How like your fathers you are. Agamemnon, Hector, Odysseus.
Kirk said: Never mind the history lesson. Release the ship!
Apollo said: You will obey me, lest I close my hand thus.
Scott said: External pressure building up, Captain. Eight hundred GSC and climbing.
Kirk said: Compensate.
Scott said: One thousand GSC and climbing. (The crew react to increasing air pressure) Becoming critical, Captain. We can't handle it.
Kirk said: All right! Whatever you're doing, turn it off! You win!
Scott said: Pressure is gone, Captain. Space normal on hull.
Apollo said: hat was your first lesson. Remember it. Captain Kirk, I invite you and your officers to join me. But do not bring that one, the one with the pointed ears. He is much like Pan, and Pan always bored me. No sad faces. This is a time to rejoice, not to fear. You are returning home. Let your hearts prepare to sing.
Kirk said: Let's go, Bones. You in good voice?
Mccoy said: Sure it's wise, Jim?
Kirk said: If we don't accept his invitation, we'll have a crushed eggshell where this ship used to be.
Spock said: Verbose, isn't he?
Kirk said: Insulted, Spock?
Spock said: Insults are effective only where emotion is present.
Kirk said: Good. We'll tackle him together. We already know the questions. You're the best man to find the answers.
Scene: Temple.
Kirk, Scott, Chekov, McCoy and Lt Carolyn Palamas beam down into a lightly wooded area in front of a Greek temple.
Kirk said: Tricorders.
Carolyn said: What am I doing down here, Doctor?
Mccoy said: Well, you're the A and A officer, aren't you? Archaeology, anthropology, ancient civilisations.
Carolyn said: Correct.
Mccoy said: We're going to need help in all those areas.
Kirk said: Come on.
Apollo is sitting on a throne, lyre by his feet
Apollo said: My children, long have I waited for this moment. The memories you bring of your lush and beautiful Earth, the green fields and blue skies, the simple shepherds and their flocks.
Kirk said: You know of Earth? You've been there?
Apollo said: Once I stretched out my hand, and Earth trembled. And I breathed upon it, and spring returned.
Kirk said: You mentioned Agamemnon, Hector, Odysseus. How do you know about them?
Apollo said: Search your most distant memories, those of the thousands of years past, and I am there. Your fathers knew me, and your father's fathers. I am Apollo.
Chekov said: And I am the tsar of all the Russias.
Kirk said: Mister Chekov.
Chekov said: I'm sorry, Captain. I never met a god before.
Kirk said: And you haven't yet. Readings, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Simple humanoid, Captain.
Kirk said: Evidently not so simple.
Apollo said: Earth, mother of the most beautiful of women in the universe. That at least has not changed. I am pleased. Yes, my children. Zeus, Athena, Aphrodite, Artemis. A gallant band of travellers. We knew your Earth well, five thousand of your years ago.
Kirk said: All right. We're here at your invitation. Would you mind telling us what you want without all the Olympian generalities?
Apollo said: You will not leave this place.
Kirk said: Transporter room.
Apollo said: Your transportation device no longer functions.
Kirk said: Enterprise, come in.
Apollo said: I will not permit that device to work, either, Captain.
Kirk said: What is it you want?
Apollo said: You will worship me, as your fathers did before you.
Kirk said: If you want to play god and call yourself Apollo, that's your business, but you're no god to us, Mister.
Apollo said: I said you would worship me.
Kirk said: And you've got a lot to learn!
Apollo said: And so have you! Let the lesson begin! (Apollo grows as tall as his temple.) Welcome to Olympus, Captain Kirk.
Scene: Bridge.
Enterprise is still held by the hand.
Uhura said: Mister Spock, I can't contact the landing party. All frequencies are jammed.
Spock said: Try to break through it, Lieutenant.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Kyle said: Transporter and communications?
Spock said: Very efficient. Mister Sulu, rig all transmission circuits for maximum power generation. Compute for reversal of polarity of the field around the ship.
Sulu said: Working, sir.
Spock said: Lieutenant Kyle, I want a complete sensor scan of the planet.
Kyle said: Aye sir.
Spock said: Locate all the lifeforms. I want to know what's going on down there.
Scene: Temple.
The giant Apollo suddenly looks weary, and vanishes.
Mccoy said: To coin a phrase, fascinating.
Kirk said: Analysis. Lieutenant Palamas, what do you know about Apollo?
Carolyn said: Apollo, twin brother of Artemis, son of the god Zeus and Leto, a mortal. He was the god of light and purity. He was skilled in the bow and lyre.
Kirk said: And this thing? (the temple)
Carolyn said: Obviously he has some knowledge of Earth. His classical references and the appearance of all this.
Kirk said: I think the appearance of this is for our benefit. Bones?
Mccoy said: I can't say much till I check our these readings. He looks human, but of course that doesn't mean a thing.
Chekov said: Whatever he is, he seems to control a remarkable technology.
Scott said: Power is what he controls. You can't do tricks like that without energy.
Kirk said: Fine, but what power, and where is it? Scout around with your tricorders. Find the source of that power. Bones.
Scott, Chekov and Carolyn wander off.
Mccoy said: Yes?
Kirk said: Bones, I wonder if five thousand years ago
Mccoy said: You have a theory?
Kirk said: I have an idea. What if he is really Apollo?
Mccoy said: What?
Carolyn said: Captain.
Apollo is back on his throne.
Apollo said: I want from you that which is rightfully mine. Your loyalty, your tribute, and your worship.
Mccoy said: May I ask what you offer in exchange for this worship?
Apollo said: Life in paradise. As simple and as pleasureful as it was those thousands of years ago on that beautiful planet so far away.
Kirk said: Apollo, we're willing to talk, but you'll find we don't bow to every creature who happens to have a bag of tricks.
Apollo said: Agamemnon was one such as you, and Hercules. Pride and arrogance. They defied me until they felt my wrath.
Scott said: I would like to point out that we are quite capable of some wrath ourselves.
Kirk said: I have four hundred and thirty people on that ship up there.
Apollo said: No, you do not, Captain. They are mine. To save, to cherish, or to destroy at my will.
Carolyn said: But why? What you've said so far makes no sense at all.
Apollo said: How like Aphrodite and Athena. The beauty, grace. And you seem wise for a woman. What is your name?
Carolyn said: Lieutenant Palamas.
Apollo said: I mean your name.
Carolyn said: Carolyn.
Apollo said: Carolyn. Yes. You are beautiful. You would do Aphrodite credit. I will tell you a thousand tales, stories of courage and love. You will know what it is to be a goddess.
Scott said: Leave her alone.
Apollo said: You protest? You risk much.
Scott said: And so do you.
Scott draws his phaser and Apollo blasts it out of his hand with a point of his finger. Chekov finds his phaser doesn't work.
Kirk said: Scotty. (picks up the twisted and melted weapon) Very impressive. How'd you do it?
Apollo said: I've grown weary of discussion and argument.
Chekov said: Captain, the phasers. All the working parts are fused.
Apollo said: None of your toys will function. Yes. You are a beauty. But like Artemis, the bow arm should be bare.
He waves his hand and her clothes turn into Greek-style draperies, with her hair piled very tall.
Carolyn said: Oh, it's beautiful.
Apollo said: Yes. Come. (he takes her hand and leads her away)
Scott said: She's not going with you.
Scott gets thrown over a table with a flick of the wrist.
Apollo said: He shall learn the discipline of the temple. So shall you all. Come.
Carolyn said: It's all right, Captain. I'll go.
Apollo said: Without fear. She is fit indeed.
They both vanish as they walk away.
Kirk said: Bones, how is he?
Mccoy said: Stunned but coming around. I'm not sure it's wise to let her go off like that.
Kirk said: He would have been rather difficult to stop.
Mccoy said: You saw how capricious he is. Benevolent one minute, angry the next. One more wrong move from her and he could kill her.
Kirk said: Mister Chekov, I think you'd better continue your investigation.
Chekov said: Aye, aye, sir.
leaves
Kirk said: How do you feel, Scotty?
Scott said: I am tingling all over. Did he take her with him?
Kirk said: It would seem so.
Scott said: Captain, we've got to stop him. He wants her. The way he looks at her.
Kirk said: Mister Scott, I understand your concern over her, but she volunteered to go with him, hopefully to find out more about him. She's doing her job. I think it's about time you started doing yours. We've got to find out the source of his power. You've got a tricorder. Use it if you're able to.
Scott said: I'm able, sir.
Kirk said: And one more thing. I want no more unauthorised action against Apollo or whatever he is. That's an order!
Scott said: Aye, aye, sir.
Kirk said: Besides, you stiff-necked thistle head, you could have gotten yourself killed.
Scott said: Aye.
leaves
Mccoy said: Scotty doesn't believe in gods.
Kirk said: Apollo's no god. But he could have been taken for one, though, once. Say five thousand years ago, a highly sophisticated group of space travellers landed on Earth around the Mediterranean.
Mccoy said: Yes. To the simple shepherds and tribesmen of early Greece, creatures like that would have been gods.
Kirk said: Especially if they had the power to alter their form at will and command great energy. In fact, they couldn't have been taken for anything else.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Ready to reverse polarity, Mister Sulu?
Sulu said: Computed and standing by to generate, sir.
Spock said: Activate all units.
The ship jolts several times, but
Sulu said: No good, Mister Spock. We didn't even faze it. We're still locked tight.
Spock said: Cut power, Mister Sulu. Lieutenant, we must restore communications with the landing party.
Uhura said: I'm working, sir, but I can't do anything with this.
Spock said: Oh?
Uhura said: I might be able to rig up a subspace bypass circuit.
Spock said: Good. Do so. Sensor report, Mister Kyle.
Kyle said: I've located the landing party, but one of them seems separated from the other four.
Spock said: And Apollo?
Kirk said: I've just picked up readings for our own people, sir.
Sulu said: Mister Spock, here's something. There seems to be a radiated energy pulsation coming from the planet. I don't know what it is, sir.
Spock said: Origin?
Sulu said: I can't seem to pinpoint it.
Spock said: I would suggest, Mister Sulu, if you cannot find out where the power source is, you should find out where it is not. A simple process of elimination.
Sulu said: The whole planet, sir? Yes, sir. The whole planet.
Scene: Water's side.
At a marble bench by a tranquil water scene.
Carolyn said: Oh, it's lovely.
Apollo said: I've known other women. Daphne, Cassandra, but none more beautiful than you. Are you frightened of me?
Carolyn said: Frightened? No, I don't think so. Of course, a girl doesn't go walking with a
Apollo said: A god?
Carolyn said: All right, a god every day. What happened to the others? Artemis, Hera?
Apollo said: They returned to the cosmos on the wings of the wind.
Carolyn said: You mean they died?
Apollo said: No, not as you understand it. We're immortal, we gods. But the Earth changed. Your fathers changed. They turned away until we were only memories. A god cannot survive as a memory. We need love, admiration, worship, as you need food.
Carolyn said: You really think you're a god?
Apollo said: In a real sense, we were gods. We had the power of life and death. We could have struck out from Olympus and destroyed. We have no wish to destroy, so we came home again. It was an empty place without worshippers, but we had no strength to leave, so we waited, all of us, through the long years.
Carolyn said: But you said the others didn't die.
Apollo said: Even for a god, there's a point of no return. Hera was first. She stood in front of the temple and spread herself upon the wind, thinner and thinner, until only the wind remained. But I knew you would come. You striving, bickering, foolishly brave humans. I knew you would come to the stars one day. Of all the gods, I knew and I waited, waited for you to come and sit by my side.
Carolyn said: I don't understand.
Apollo said: Even five thousand years ago, the gods took mortals to them to love, to care for, like Zeus took Leto, my mother. We were gods of passion, of love.
They kiss.
Scene: Temple.
Chekov said: There is a repeated occurrence of registrations, a regular pulsating pattern of radiated energy. SCOTT: Unquestionably, an immensely powerful field of energy is being generated around here somewhere. We're just having difficulty focusing on it.
Kirk said: Apollo has no difficulty focusing. He taps that energy, Mister Scott.
Chekov said: Sir, some creatures can generate and control energy with no harm to themselves. The electric eel on Earth, the giant dry worm of Antos Four, the fluffy
Mccoy said: Not the whole encyclopaedia, Chekov.
Chekov said: The captain requires complete information.
Mccoy said: Spock's contaminating this boy, Jim.
Kirk said: Are you suggesting that he, Apollo, taps a flow of energy and channels it through his body?
Chekov said: That would seem most likely, sir.
Kirk said: Mister Chekov, I think you've earned your pay for the week. But where is the source of that power?
Mccoy said: Number one on our list of things to do.
Kirk said: Is that all you have to offer?
Mccoy said: Yes, except my estimation for his physical condition. In spite of Apollo's bag of tricks, he comes up essentially normal with just a few variations. However, there's an extra organ in his chest that I can't even make a guess about.
Kirk said: Bones, is it possible
Mccoy said: Jim.
Apollo walks back in out of thin air.
Kirk said: Where's Lieutenant Palamas?
Apollo said: She is no longer of any concern to you.
Scott said: You bloodthirsty Saracen, what have you done with her?
Scott picks up a statuette and rushes at Apollo. He gets another finger blast of electricity for his effort.
Kirk said: Scotty!
Mccoy said: Not good. Severe shock.
Kirk said: All right, mister. You wanted worshippers? You've got enemies. You want us to bow down, you'll have to
Kirk clutches his throat and falls to the ground, choking.
Apollo said: You will learn discipline. You will learn
Again, he suddenly becomes tired and vanishes.
Mccoy said: Chekov, give me a hand.
Kirk said: Take care of Scotty.
Chekov said: Are you all right, Captain?
Kirk said: Where's Apollo?
Chekov said: He disappeared again like the cat in that Russian story.
Kirk said: Don't you mean the English story, the Cheshire Cat?
Chekov said: Cheshire? No, sir. Minsk perhaps, but
Kirk said: All right, all right, all right.
Chekov said: Sir, there is something I noticed. Apollo looked very strange when he disappeared, tired or in pain. I don't know if it means anything.
Kirk said: Very good, Mister Chekov. That might very well mean something.
Mccoy said: How do you feel?
Scott said: I can't get my arm to move.
Mccoy said: Some neural damage.
Kirk said: We've got to get out of here.
Chekov said: How?
Kirk said: Well, let's assume that five thousand years ago creatures like our friend Apollo did indeed visit Earth and form the basis of the Greek classic myths.
Mccoy said: Makes sense.
Kirk said: Most mythology has its basis in fact. If I remember my ancient legends, the gods, after expending energy, required rest, even as we humans.
Chekov said: And Apollo's gone, after attacking you and Mister Scott. You think maybe he's off somewhere recharging his energy cells?
Kirk said: Something like that. Remember, he's keeping a force field on the ship and he's expending energy down here. You said he looked pained and tired when he disappeared. If we can wear him out, overwork him, that might do it.
Mccoy said: The trouble with overworking him is that it can get us killed.
Kirk said: If we can provoke him so that he strikes one of us again, there's a chance that he'll be drained enough so the rest of us can jump him.
Mccoy said: I still say it can get us killed.
Kirk said: Not all of us, Bones. When he comes back, it's a chance we'll have to take.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura is underneath the communications station, doing some soldering.
Spock said: Progress report.
Uhura said: I'm connecting the bypass circuit now, sir. It should take another half hour.
Spock said: Speed is essential, Lieutenant.
Uhura said: Mister Spock, I haven't done anything like this in years. If it isn't done just right, I could blow the entire communications system. It's very delicate work, sir.
Spock said: I can think no one better equipped to handle it, Miss Uhura. Please proceed.
Uhura said: Yes, sir. Right away.
Spock said: Progress, Mister Sulu?
Sulu said: Sectors one through twenty five charted and examined. No chance at all of power originating in those areas.
Spock said: Continue the search.
Sulu said: Aye, sir. Fourteen B by twenty six index.
Spock said: Mister Kyle.
Kyle said: Yes, sir.
Spock said: We're unable to break completely loose from this force field, but we might be able to punch some holes through it.
Kyle said: What for, sir?
Spock said: To shoot through. It might also relieve Lieutenant Uhura's communications problem. Take these equations to the nuclear electronics lab. I want them to work on the problem of negating the force field in selected areas. That might be done by generating a strong pinpoint charge of M-rays on some of these selected wave lengths and tying them in with the combined output of all our engines.
Kyle said: Right away, sir.
Scene: Temple.
Apollo reappears on his throne, Carolyn standing by his side.
Apollo said: Come here! I know you're trying to escape me. It's useless. I know everything you do. I tried to be compassionate toward your kind.
Kirk said: You know nothing about our kind. You know only our remote ancestors who trembled before your tricks. Your tricks don't frighten us, neither do you. We've come a long way in five thousand years.
Apollo said: But you're of the same nature. I could sweep you out of existence with a wave of my hand and bring you back again. I can give life or death. What else does mankind demand of its gods?
Kirk said: Mankind has no need for gods. We find the one quite adequate.
Apollo said: We shall not debate, mortal. I offer you eternal rest and happiness according to the ancient ways. I ask little in return, but what I ask for I insist upon. Approach me. (the four men turn their backs on him) I said approach me!
Kirk said: We're busy. (quietly) Look after the girl.
Apollo said: You will gather laurel leaves, light the ancient fires, kill a deer, make your sacrifices to me. Apollo has spoken!
Kirk said: Go! Gather laurel leaves? You must be joking!
All said: Ha ha ha ha.
Mccoy said: Kill a deer. That's the funniest thing I ever heard.
Carolyn said: Captain.
Kirk said: Lieutenant, get back.
Apollo said: You shall reap the rewards of your insolence!
Kirk said: We're tired of your phony fireworks!
Apollo said: Mortal, you have earned this!
Carolyn said: No, don't!
Kirk said: Lieutenant!
Carolyn said: A father doesn't destroy his children. You said you were gentle and understanding.
Kirk said: Lieutenant!
Carolyn said: How can they worship you if you hurt them?
Kirk said: Lieutenant.
Carolyn said: Apollo, please. (taking his hand) You know so much of love. Please don't hurt them. Please.
Apollo said: I shall be lenient with you, for her sake. You will make plans to bring the rest of your people down. Be sure your artisans bring tools. You will need homes.
Kirk said: And you will supply the herds of sheep, and the pipes we'll play, and the simple skins we'll wear for clothes.
Apollo said: You will dismantle your ship for the supplies you need, and I'll crush its empty hull. I have been too patient. I shall be patient no longer.
He disappears with Carolyn still holding his hand.
Scott said: Captain, we've got to do something!
Kirk said: We were doing something until our brave lady stepped in and saved us.
Mccoy said: Any more good ideas, Jim?
Kirk said: Yes, I have. One more. And it depends on the lieutenant's loyalty. If she fails us, we'd better get used to herding goats.
Scene: Water's side.
Apollo said: Fools. I offer them more than they could know. Not just a world, but all that makes it up. Man thinks he's progressed. They're wrong. He's merely forgotten those things which gave life meaning. You'll all be provided for, cared for, happy. There is an order of things in this universe. Your species has denied it. I come to restore it. And for you, because you have the sensitivity to understand, I offer you more than your wildest dreams have ever imagined. You'll become the mother of a new race of gods. You'll inspire the universe. All men will revere you almost as a god yourself. And I shall love you for time without end, worlds without end. You shall complete me, and I you.
She embraces him happily.
Scene: Temple.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise, come in. Enterprise, come in. Kirk to Enterprise, come in. Kirk to
Scott said: Carolyn. What's happened to her?
Kirk said: Scotty, I'll find out.
Chekov said: Perhaps if I assisted.
Kirk said: How old are you?
Chekov said: Twenty two, sir.
Kirk said: Then I'd better handle it. (goes over to a very satisfied looking woman) You all right?
Carolyn said: Oh, yes, I'm all right. I have a message for you.
Kirk said: Come over there. Well?
Carolyn said: He wants us to live in peace. He wants to provide for us. He'll give us everything we ever wanted, and he can do it, too.
Kirk said: All right, Lieutenant, you can come down from Mount Olympus now. You've got work to do.
Carolyn said: I don't understand.
Kirk said: He thrives on love, worship, attention.
Carolyn said: Yes?
Kirk said: We can't give him that worship, none of us can. Especially you.
Carolyn said: What?
Kirk said: Spurn him. Reject him. You must. You're special to him.
Carolyn said: Yes. I love him.
Kirk said: Lieutenant. All our lives, here and on the ship, depend on you.
Carolyn said: No, not on me.
Kirk said: On you, Lieutenant! Reject him, and we have a chance to save ourselves. Accept him, and you condemn all of us to slavery, nothing less than slavery. We might never get help this far out. Or perhaps the thought of spending an eternity bending knee and tending sheep appeals to you.
Carolyn said: Oh, but you don't understand. He's kind, and he wants the best for us. And he's so lonely. What you ask would break his heart. How can I?
Kirk said: Give me your hand. Your hand. (she does) Now feel that. Human flesh against human flesh. We're the same. We share the same history, the same heritage, the same lives. We're tied together beyond any untying. Man or woman, it makes no difference. We're human. We couldn't escape from each other even if we wanted to. That's how you do it, Lieutenant. By remembering who and what you are. A bit of flesh and blood afloat in a universe without end. The only thing that's truly yours is the rest of humanity. That's where our duty lies. Do you understand me?
Carolyn said: Yes. Yes, I understand. He's calling me.
Kirk said: Lieutenant. You have your orders and your duty.
Carolyn said: Yes, sir. My orders and my duty.
She walks away slowly, looking back.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: I think we can try it now, sir. Enterprise to Captain Kirk. Enterprise to Captain Kirk. Come in, Captain.
Scene: Temple.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Spock here, Captain.
Scene: Temple.
The rest of the men gather to listen
Spock said: We've pinpointed a power source on the planet's surface which seems to have something to do with the force field.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Is there a structure of some sort near you?
Scene: Temple.
Kirk said: There is indeed, Mister Spock.
Spock said: The power emanates from there.
Kirk said: Very good. How are you doing on the force field?
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: We can negate sections of it, creating openings through which we can fire our phaser banks.
Scene: Temple.
Kirk said: Well, that ought to do it. Have Sulu lock all phaser banks onto the structure. Fire on my order only. Cut it fine. We'll be standing nearby.
]Bridge]
Spock said: Captain. I would recommend a discreet distance.
Kirk said: I'd love to oblige you, Mister Spock, but we're not all together. Besides, we have Apollo to deal with.
Scene: Temple.
Kirk said: If that structure is the source of his power, I want to know where he is when we attack it.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Kirk out.
Scene: Temple.
Kirk said: Bones, do you think that mysterious organ in Apollo's chest could have something to do with the transmission of energy?
Mccoy said: Well, it doesn't serve any other purpose I know of.
Scott said: Captain, we've got to wait until Carolyn comes back before we fire on the temple. We don't know what would happen to her if he was suddenly attacked. She might get killed.
Kirk said: Yes, I know. I know. Scotty. We'll wait.
Scene: Water's side.
There's some very passionate kissing going on.
Carolyn said: I must say, Apollo, the way you ape human behaviour is remarkable, but there are some other things I must know. Your evolutionary patterns and your social development.
Apollo said: My what?
Carolyn said: I'm sure they're unique. I've never encountered a specimen like you before.
Apollo said: I am Apollo. I've chosen you.
Carolyn said: I'm sure that's very flattering, but I must get on with my work now.
Apollo said: Your work?
Carolyn said: I'm a scientist. My particular specialty is ancient civilisations, relics, and myths. Surely you know I've only been studying you.
Apollo said: I don't believe it. You love me.
Carolyn said: Love you? Be logical. I'm not some simple shepherdess you can awe. Why, I could no more love you than I could love a new species of bacteria.
Apollo said: Carolyn! I forbid you to go. I order you to stay.
Carolyn said: Is that the secret of your power over women, the thunderbolts you throw?
She walks away, and a strong wind begins to blow. Thunder rumbles.
Scene: Temple.
Mccoy said: What the devil is that?
Kirk said: (answers communicator) Kirk here.
Spock said: Spock, Captain.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Sensors are picking up an atmospheric disturbance in your area.
Scene: Temple.
Kirk said: Stand by your phasers, Mister Spock. Prepare to fire on my signal. Kirk out.
Scott said: Captain, we've got to go and find her!
Kirk said: We've got to be here when he comes back.
Scott said: But what if he doesn't. What if he
Kirk said: Scotty, just hold on!
Carolyn falls to the ground in the strong winds, and a giant image of Apollo looms over her amid the lightning flashes.
Scott said: Captain!
Kirk said: All right. The temple is his power source. Let's bring him back to it. Get to cover. Mister Spock, fire those phasers.
Spock said: Captain, you're too close.
Kirk said: Fire those phasers! That's an order, Mister Spock!
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: All phaser banks, fire!
Scene: Temple.
The white marble starts to glow pink under the phaser beams, and Apollo runs back.
Apollo said: No! Stop! Stop, I say!
Scene: Bridge.
Enterprise shudders under his anger. There is no longer a hand holding the ship.
Sulu said: All phaser banks, maintain firing rate!
Spock said: More power to the shields.
Scene: Temple.
Apollo said: Stop!
Carolyn totters into view, and Scotty dashes to her.
Kirk said: Scotty!
Apollo said: Stop, I say! (the temple is now yellow) I command it!
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: All banks maintain firing rate.
Sulu said: Maintaining, sir.
Scene: Temple.
Apollo said: Stop! Stop! Stop!
His lightning bolts end, and the temple dissolves into rubble. Scott helps Carolyn to her feet as Apollo walks around, surveying the ruins.
Apollo said: I would have cherished you, cared for you. I would have loved you as a father loves his children. Did I ask so much?
Kirk said: We've out grown you. You asked for something we could no longer give.
Apollo said: Carolyn, I loved you. I would have made a goddess of you. I've shown you my open heart. See what you've done to me.
He becomes a giant.
Apollo said: Zeus, Hermes, Hera, Aphrodite. You were right. Athena, you were right. The time has passed. There is no room for gods. Forgive me, my old friends. Take me. Take me.
And he disappears one last time. Carolyn cries.
Mccoy said: I wish we hadn't had to do this.
Kirk said: So do I. They gave us so much. The Greek civilisation, much of our culture and philosophy came from a worship of those beings. In a way, they began the Golden Age. Would it have hurt us, I wonder, just to have gathered a few laurel leaves?