Friday's Child
Stardate: 3497.2
Original Airdate: 1 Dec, 1967
Scene: Briefing room.
Mccoy said: They're quite large. Seven feet tall is not unusual. They're extremely fast and strong. Lieutenant?
Uhura turns on a monitor Make no mistake. They can be highly dangerous. The Capellans' basic weapon, the kligat. At any distance up to a hundred yards, they can make it almost as effective against a man as a phaser.
On the monitor, we see McCoy being given a demonstration in which a small sapling is cut in half by one of these hand-thrown objects.
Mccoy said: In addition, an assortment of swords and knives.
Uhura said: Call from the bridge, Captain.
Sulu said: Bridge, Helm, sir.
Kirk said: Yes, Mister Sulu. Report.
Sulu said: Now in standard orbit, sir. I've pinpointed their encampment below.
Kirk said: Very good. Have the transporter room stand by.
Sulu said: Aye, sir.
Scott said: How long were you stationed on the planet, Doctor?
Mccoy said: Only a few months. We found them totally uninterested in medical aid or hospitals. They believe only the strong should survive.
Kirk said: Analysis, gentlemen.
Spock said: Ordinarily, under these circumstances, I would recommend a large, well-armed landing party.
Kirk said: Yes, but in this case, with the more people we take down, the greater chance we have of violating one of their taboos.
Mccoy said: Agreed. Once they've got it into their heads we're showing force, you can forget them signing any mining treaty.
Kirk said: Very well. Scotty, you're in command. Bear in mind that the Klingons have been sighted in this sector. While we're negotiating down there, we don't want the Enterprise to become an incident up here.
Scott said: Aye, sir. We'll keep on our toes.
Scene: Settlement.
Kirk, Spock, McCoy and one security guard beam down.
Maab said: Halt! You are of the Earth vessel?
Kirk said: I'm Captain Kirk.
Mccoy said: We come with open hearts and hands.
Grant said: A Klingon!
Kirk said: Grant, no!
Too late. A Capellan kills him with a kligat.
Mccoy said: Don't move a muscle.
Captain's log, stardate 3497.2. Planet Capella Four. The rare mineral topaline, vital to the life-support systems of planetoid colonies, has been discovered in abundance here. Our mission, obtain a mining agreement. But we've discovered a Klingon agent has preceded us to the planet. A discovery which has cost the life of one of my crewmen.
Scene: Settlement.
Kras said: I am unaware of any state of war between our peoples, Captain.
Mccoy said: Jim!
Kras said: Or is it your policy to kill Klingons on sight?
Kirk said: He was young, and inexperienced.
Mccoy said: Does Maab know that the Klingons are our sworn enemies by their own words?
Maab said: We understand only that he also offers things of value for our rocks, and he has freely handed us his weapons and other devices. Will you do the same?
Kirk said: Let me call my ship and inform them
Kras said: To bring down an attack upon their village? It is as I told you, Maab. Earthmen fear to bargain honestly.
Maab said: Will you hand us your weapons?
Phasers and communicators are thrown down at Maab's feet.
Scene: Tent.
Traces of bedouin-style, with low furniture, plenty of furs and a metal brazier providing warmth and light. There are two guards outside.
Kirk said: So they keep their word scrupulously. They're unusually honest. Is that what I heard you say, Doctor?
Mccoy said: Yes, I mentioned that.
Spock said: He also mentioned that they can be highly dangerous.
Kirk said: Dangerous if lied to, if their customs are violated. We lied to no one, Doctor. We violated no customs. Perhaps you'll explain to me why one of my men is dead.
Mccoy said: Because he was drawing a weapon on another of their guests.
Kirk said: Grant looked up, saw a Klingon, made a purely instinctive defensive move. What's a Klingon doing down here among your scrupulously honest friends anyway?
Mccoy said: Look, Jim. I know what it means to you to lose a crewman.
Kirk said: That's only one down, Doctor. There's over four hundred more up there in orbit. And if there's a Klingon down here, there might be a Klingon ship up there somewhere.
Scene: Bridge.
Chekov said: Mister Scott. I'm picking up something on the sensors, sir. Seems to be another ship.
Scott said: Well, let's put it on the screen.
A small dot on the monitor above the science station.
Chekov said: It's just at the edge of our sensor range, sir. Hard to get an exact reading.
Sulu said: You think it's a Klingon ship?
Scott said: Who else would be playing cat and mouse with a starship? Well, they can't hurt us much out there, bobbing about like that. No need to call the captain yet.
Scene: Tent.
Kirk said: Bones.
Mccoy said: Yes, Captain?
Kirk said: I shouldn't have chewed you out. I'm sorry.
Mccoy said: I understand.
Spock said: Inefficient, however. Emotion, Captain.
Kirk said: Yes, you're quite right, Mister Spock. Inefficient and illogical.
A woman enters with a large bowl of fruit.
Mccoy said: You've shown friendship by handing over our weapons. She's making a gesture in return.
She offers Kirk a piece.
Mccoy said: Jim! You touch it, her nearest male relative will have to try to kill you. They're offering you a chance for combat. They consider it more pleasurable than love.
Man said: Chur-ah.
Spock said: It would appear, Captain, that he finds you a disappointment.
Scene: Teer's tent.
A middle-aged man sits on a throne, surrounded by his guards.
Akaar said: I am the teer Akaar. I lead the Ten Tribes of Capella.
A heavily pregnant woman enters and sits.
Akaar said: And this is Eleen, a young wife to give an old man a son to rule these tribes.
Kirk said: I'm Captain Kirk. First of all, I must protest the killing of my crewman.
Akaar said: If it was your man, wasn't it his privilege to die for you? I do not understand.
Maab said: Their customs are different, Teer.
Kras said: And different from those of my people, too, Teer. The sight of death frightens them.
Mccoy said: Let me take this, Jim. What Maab has said is true. Our customs are different. What the Klingon has said is unimportant, and we do not hear his words. I just called the Klingon a liar.
Maab said: Laughter, Teer? Is not the Klingon an honoured guest also?
Akaar said: It was the Earth people who first bargained for our rocks.
Maab said: Is it not best to have two who bargain for the same goods?
Akaar said: It is I who speak for the tribe, Maab.
Maab said: I speak for many, Teer. Hear the words of the Klingon.
Kras said: What do Earth men offer you? What have you obtained from them in the past? Powders and liquids for the sick? We Klingons believe as you do. The sick should die. Only the strong should live. Earthmen have promised to teach the youth of your tribes many things. What? What things? Cleverness against enemies? The use of weapons?
Eleen said: The Klingon speaks the truth, Akaar.
Kirk said: The Earth Federation offers one other thing, Akaar. Our laws. And the highest of all our laws states that your world is yours and will always remain yours. This differs us from the Klingons. Their empire is made up of conquered worlds. They take what they want by arms and force.
Maab said: Good, good. Let the Klingons and the Earthmen offer us amusement. Capellans welcome this.
Akaar said: The Earth men have different customs, but never have they lied to our people.
Maab said: There are those of us who won't bargain with Earthmen, Akaar.
Akaar said: Do you say you will fight me, Maab?
Maab said: Let that be your choice, Teer.
Maab, Kras and the Orange man leave.
Kirk said: We need our communicators, those devices on our belts. If there's a Klingon ship somewhere
Akaar said: The sky does not interest me. I must consider the words I have heard.
Eleen said: Leave him.
Scene: Bridge.
Chekov said: The ship's disappeared, sir. Gone out of range.
Uhura said: Mister Scott, I'm getting a call from a vessel. It's so faint I can't make it out.
Scott said: Put a booster on it, Lieutenant. Try to pull it in.
Uhura said: I've lost it. It sounded like a distress signal from an Earth vessel.
Scene: Settlement.
There is a big fight going on, and Kirk joins in when a Capellan comes to their tent. Maab and Akaar's factions are fighting each other. Kras takes the opportunity to search the landing party's tent.
Scene: Tent.
Kirk said: Klingon! Communicators, weapons.
Kras said: I have no quarrel with you, Captain. I wish merely to return to my vessel.
He grabs a knife and lunges at Kirk, who throws him easily and turns the weapon on the Klingon.
Kirk said: Type of vessel. Location.
Kras said: A small scout ship, Captain. We need the mineral, too. I was sent to negotiate.
Maab said: Release him. (Kirk does so.) Akaar is dead. I am the teer.
Kras said: Kill them now.
Kirk said: Wait. If you lead these people now, be certain you make the right decisions.
Kras said: Is the new leader of the Ten Tribes afraid? Let me kill him for you.
Kirk said: Or let the Klingon and me fight. It might amuse you.
Maab said: Perhaps to be a teer is to see in new ways. I begin to like you, Earthman, and I saw fear in the Klingon's eye.
Kras said: We had an agreement.
Maab said: That too may change, Klingon.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: I have the signal clear now, Mister Scott. It is a distress call. It's from the SS Dierdre.
Scott said: Dierdre? That's a freighter.
Uhura said: Reporting they're under attack. They're running, trying to manoeuvre. It's a Klingon vessel attacking.
Scott said: Helm?
Sulu said: Picking it up, sir. Taking a fix.
Scott said: Try the captain.
Uhura said: Enterprise to Captain Kirk. Come in, Captain. Enterprise to Captain Kirk. Come in, Captain.
Scene: Teer's tent.
Eleen is brought in. One of Maab's guards trips her with his sword, and she burns her hand the brazier. Kirk moves to help, but
Mccoy said: Captain, careful.
Maab said: You carry a child who would be teer.
Eleen said: I must die.
(Maab raises his knife, and Kirk pulls her away.
Kirk said: No!
There's a fight. Starfleet loses.
Maab said: No man may touch the wife of a teer.
Kras said: She was prepared to die, Earthman.
Eleen said: I was proud to obey the laws. Kill him first. He laid hands upon me. It is my right to see him die.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Enterprise to Mister Spock. Doctor McCoy, come in please.
Chekov said: I have it on the sensors, sir. Tie into my channel, Lieutenant.
Voice said: Commanding. We are under heavy attack by Klingon vessels. Two convoy ships are already damaged. We must have help. Enterprise, acknowledge. Please acknowledge. Repeat
Sulu said: Interception course computed and laid in, sir.
Scott said: Prepare to take us out of orbit, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Aye, sir.
Uhura said: Scotty, the captain.
Scott said: We have a distress call from a Federation ship under attack. That's where our duty lies. Take us out of orbit, Mister Sulu. Ahead warp five.
Captain's log, stardate 3498.9. Lieutenant Commander Scott in temporary command.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: We were forced to leave Capella to aid a Federation vessel under attack by a Klingon vessel. We were unable to contact our landing party before we were forced to answer the distress signal. Our inability to reach the landing party is strange and I am concerned.
Scene: Tent.
Eleen is with the three men, and the guards are now inside the doorway.
Spock said: Our check-in signal is one hour, twelve minutes overdue. Since no reconnaissance party has appeared, and since Mister Scott is notably efficient in such matters
Kirk said: I must assume that something's keeping them busy up there. The Klingon ship.
Spock said: That would seem a logical conclusion.
Mccoy said: Captain, I'm going to fix that woman's arm. They can only kill me once for touching her.
Kirk said: That's a very good idea, Bones.
Spock said: Yes, Captain, an excellent idea.
Mccoy said: Let me see that arm.
Eleen said: You will not touch me.
The guards are distracted by McCoy and Eleen, so Kirk and Spock overpower them while McCoy keeps her quiet.
Kirk said: (knife at her throat) You said you're prepared to die. Does that mean you'd prefer to die? I think we can get you safely to the ship. Your choice. Bones.
Eleen said: To live is always desirable.
Kirk said: All right. Let's go.
Scene: Settlement.
Maab is sitting on his throne out in the fresh air as Kras paces near him.
Maab said: Klingon. There's nothing to concern you there.
Kras said: We made an agreement, Maab. I have a right to my weapons.
Maab said: (taking a disrupter from under his cloak) We have them well cared for, Klingon. Your weapon will be returned when our business is completed. That was our agreement.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Approaching the freighter's last reported position, sir.
Scott said: Sensor report, Mister Chekov.
Chekov said: Negative, sir. No debris, no residual particles, no traces.
Scott said: Mister Sulu, begin a standard search pattern. All scanners full intensity, Mister Chekov. (to Uhura) No signal at all?
Uhura said: Negative, sir.
Chekov said: It should be on our screens by now.
Sulu said: At best, a freighter might travel warp two.
Scott said: I'm well aware of a freighter's maximum speed, Mister Sulu.
Captain's log, stardate 3499.1. Before leaving the Capellan encampment, we managed to retrieve our communicators. Our phasers were not to be found. We've fled into the hills, yet we know the Capellans will eventually find us by scent alone, if necessary. And we've learned one thing more. The girl, Eleen, hates the unborn child she is carrying.
Scene: Hillside.
It is, of course, a place with plenty of rocks and cliff faces.
Kirk said: Stay with her, Bones. Nice place to get trapped in.
Spock said: But a defensible entrance, Captain.
Kirk said: Yes, I see. Scout up the trail that way. See what we have in the way of an exit. I'll take a look around.
Mccoy said: Now listen, you may be a Capellan woman and the widow of a high teer, but I'm a doctor, and it's my tradition to care for the sick and injured. Now, let me see that arm.
She does, and he treats the burn. Meanwhile, Kirk spots the posse coming after them.
McCoy scans Eleen's belly, then puts his hand on it.
Eleen said: You will not touch me in that manner.
Mccoy said: You listen to me, young woman. I'll touch you in any way or manner that my professional judgment indicates.
She slaps his face, twice, so he slaps her in return.
Mccoy said: Just as I thought. It can come anytime now.
Eleen said: How do you know?
Mccoy said: Because I'm a doctor, that's how I know.
Eleen said: Even the women of our village cannot tell so much with a touch. Strange hand. Very soft.
Spock and Kirk meet up.
Spock said: The walls get higher and narrower, but there is a way out.
Kirk said: Good. If we could block off that entrance, hold them off, it'd give us more time. They'd have to go around these hills.
Spock said: There is enough loose rock and shale.
Kirk said: Do you think we could create a sonic disruption with two of our communicators?
Spock said: Only a very slight chance it would work.
Kirk said: Well, if you don't think we can, maybe we shouldn't try.
Spock said: Captain, I didn't say that exactly.
The Capellans are getting close to the canyon entrance.
Spock said: The sound beams should produce a sympathetic vibration on the weak area of that slide.
The party is led by Maab, who senses something is wrong but keeps coming forward until the rock face explodes. Kras hides but other Capellans are crushed by the falling boulders. When the dust starts to clear, Kras takes the Federation phasers from a wounded Capellan then kills him with his own knife. The remaining members of the posse move on.
Kirk said: Worried about the delivery?
Mccoy said: Capellans aren't human, Jim. They're humanoid. There's certain internal differences. I don't have equipment to handle an emergency.
Kirk said: Well, if you don't think you can handle it
Mccoy said: Forget it. I can do it. The last thing I want around is a ham-handed ship's captain.
They continue their climb up the canyon. It is steep and Eleen is struggling. Kirk goes to help.
Eleen said: No! Only McCoy.
Kirk said: There's a cave in there. Probably the only shelter around here.
Mccoy said: I'll need help getting her in there.
Eleen said: No!
Mccoy said: Look, I'm a doctor, not an escalator! Spock, give me a hand!
Eleen said: No! I will allow only your touch.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: A vessel doesn't just disappear.
Uhura said: There's nothing, Mister Scott. All channels and frequencies are clear.
Scott said: Mister Chekov?
Chekov said: Nothing, sir. If it were destroyed, I'd pick up debris readings of some sort.
Sulu said: It couldn't have run away from us, sir. Not a freighter.
Scott said: Mister Chekov, pull the microtape on that distress call. I want it replayed.
Voice said: Commanding. We are under heavy attack by Klingon vessels. Two convoy ships are already damaged. We must have help.
Enterprise, acknowledge. Please acknowledge.
Scott said: Did you hear it? They called us by name. Not a general distress signal, but one aimed right at us.
Sulu said: Wouldn't they normally call for the nearest starship?
Scott said: How would a freighter know we were ordered into this sector?
Sulu said: A trap. We were diverted from the planet.
Uhura said: Or it could be an authentic distress call.
Scott said: We'll stay long enough to make certain. Continue search pattern.
Sulu said: Yes, sir. Continuing.
Scene: Cave.
Dark, with convenient flat-topped rocks studding the smooth floor.
Kirk said: Bones, you've got one of those magnesite-nitron tablets in your kit. Give me one.
Mccoy said: Just a minute. Let me get her on the rock. There you go.
Kirk puts the tablet on a rock and hits it with his knife. It bursts into flame and the whole cave is illuminated. Eleen is in pain.
Eleen said: No, no. Pain is here.
Kirk said: How did you arrange to touch her, Bones, give her a happy pill?
Mccoy said: No a right cross.
Kirk said: Never seen that in a medical book.
Mccoy said: It's in mine from now on.
Eleen said: No, no. It's there. The The pain is there.
Scene: Cave entrance.
Kirk said: Vegetation, Captain. Evidently there's water nearby.
Kirk said: Good, but we need weapons just as much as we need water, Spock.
Spock said: There would seem to be little weapon potential at hand.
Kirk said: Follow me.
Scene: Cave.
Eleen said: No! McCoy!
Mccoy said: Easy, easy. I'm here. Now you must want the child!
Eleen said: No. Here, child belongs to husband.
Mccoy said: So they take all the credit here. Poppycock! Answer me. Do you want my help? Answer me. Do you want my help? (she nods) All right. Say to yourself, The child is mine. The child is mine. It is mine!
Eleen said: Yes, it's yours.
Mccoy said: No, no. You've got it all wrong.
Eleen said: Yes, McCoy. It's yours.
Mccoy said: No. Say to yourself, The child is mine. It is mine. It is
But she has made up her mind, and the child is coming anyway.
Scene: Cave entrance.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise. Come in. Kirk to Enterprise. Come in.
He gives up and tests a bow they have made.
Spock said: Fortunately, this bark has suitable tensile cohesion.
Kirk said: You mean it makes a good bowstring.
Spock said: I believe I said that.
A baby cries offscreen.
Kirk said: That's more like it. Since the Capellans never developed the bow, this may come as big a surprise as gunpowder was on Earth.
A beaming McCoy comes to summon the men back indoors.
Scene: Cave.
The new-born is proudly shown off by the Doctor, then handed to Spock, who has no idea how to cradle it.
Mccoy said: No, no, Mister Spock. You place this arm under here to support its back, and this hand here to support its head.
Spock said: I would rather, I would rather not. Thank you.
Eleen said: McCoy. Bring our child.
Kirk said: Our child?
Mccoy said: I'll explain later.
Spock said: That should prove very interesting.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Still negative, Mister Scott. All sweeps.
Scott said: Mister Chekov?
Chekov said: Nothing.
Scott said: We're turning back. Warp five, Helm.
Sulu said: Warp five, sir. On course for Capella Four.
Scott said: Warp 6 as soon as she'll take it, Mister Sulu. The captain could be in trouble back there.
Uhura said: Mister Scott, another distress call from the USS Carolina.
Scott said: Ignore it.
Uhura said: The Carolina is registered in this sector.
Scott said: Ignore it, Lieutenant. Log it as my order, my responsibility.
Uhura said: Aye, aye, sir.
Sulu said: Scotty, if it should turn out to be real
Scott said: There's an old, old saying on Earth, Mister Sulu. Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, shame on me.
Chekov said: I know this saying. It was invented in Russia. (he smirks to himself)
Scene: Cave.
Eleen knocks out the sleeping McCoy and leaves.
Scene: Cave entrance.
Atop the rocks, Kirk and Spock are keeping lookout for the Capellans when McCoy wakes.
Mccoy said: Jim! Spock! Jim! Spock!
Kirk said: What happened, Bones?
Mccoy said: My patient spattered me with a rock. She's gone.
Spock said: The child?
Mccoy said: It's all right. It's in there. I guess I'll forget psychiatry, stick with surgery. I really thought she'd learned to want it.
Spock said: Virtue is a relative term, Doctor. She'll head straight to the warriors.
Mccoy said: I'll go with you.
Kirk said: Bones, you took a medical oath long before you signed aboard my ship. That small patient in there needs you.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Estimating to planet?
Sulu said: Thirty one minutes, sir.
Chekov said: Mister Scott? Sensors picking up a vessel ahead, cutting across our path.
Scott said: Sub-light one half.
Sulu said: Reversing to sub-light, one half.
Chekov said: It's an alien, sir. By configuration a Klingon warship. Taking position directly in our path.
Scott said: Mister Sulu, sound battle stations.
Sulu said: Aye, aye, sir.
Uhura said: This is the USS Enterprise calling unidentified Klingon vessel. Come in. USS Enterprise calling Klingon vessel. Acknowledge, please.
Sulu said: I have it on the viewscreen now, sir. Still distant. Holding a position dead ahead, sir.
Scott said: Drawing a line, daring us to step over it.
Sulu said: Still closing. The alien's directly in our line of flight.
Scott said: This is the commander of the USS Enterprise. Identify yourself and your intention. Acknowledge. Close out the frequency, Lieutenant.
Sulu said: Phaser banks are ready, sir.
Scott said: And we'll go right down their throat, if necessary. Let's see if they have the belly for it.
Scene: Hillside.
Kirk and Spock are lying in wait for the Capellans, who are travelling single file. Maab stops the column and sends a scout ahead.
Keel said: Behind the rocks up there.
Maab said: The Earthmen make excellent game. Their cleverness has surprised me.
Kras said: (slightly out of breath) They must die. That is your law.
Maab said: We will honour our law, and our word to you, Klingon.
Keel said: Maab.
Eleen said: The child is dead, Maab. Do as you will with me.
Keel said: The Earthmen?
Eleen said: Dead. I killed them as they slept.
Kras said: If true, take us to them.
Eleen said: Do you doubt my word, Klingon? I'm the wife of a teer. I will die in my own tent.
Maab said: It is in order. She is the wife of a teer. (Kras runs off.) No!
Kras said: First, we'll verify her story.
Maab said: Is this what your sworn word means, Klingon?
Kirk shoots an arrow into Kras' knee. A kligat is thrown, and Spock shoots the thrower. Kirk downs another. Eleen runs for the Klingon's phaser but he picks it up first and uses it to blast at Spock's hiding place.
Kirk said: Spock. Spock!
Spock said: Here, Captain. Over here, Captain. (into communicator as Kirk joins him.) Spock to Enterprise.
Kirk said: The cavalry doesn't come over the hill in the nick of time anymore.
Spock said: If by that you mean we can't expect help from the Enterprise, I must agree.
Maab said: Naam.
But Kras disintegrates him before he can throw his kligat
Kirk said: There's just one thing I want.
Spock said: The Klingon?
Kirk said: One of us must get him.
Spock said: Revenge, Captain?
Kirk said: Why not?
Kras said: The next man who raises a weapon destroys all of you. You and your primitive knives and your weapons, I'll teach you what killing really means.
Kirk said: Klingon!
Eleen said: Fight! Are you warriors or children? Maab, I will flee. When the Klingon turns to fire, I'll
Maab said: (drawing his knife) As teer of the Ten Tribes, I give you back your life. Mine is now forfeit. Keel, stand ready.
Maab walks forward, arms out to the side.
Maab said: Klingon!
Kras disintegrates him, and Keel throws his kligat, killing Kras. The two factions gather at the body. Then a bunch of red-shirts run around the corner.
Scott said: Hold it there. Drop your weapons.
McCoy arrives carrying the baby, and Eleen goes to him.
Kirk said: We missed you, Mister Scott.
Scott said: Well sir, we had a wee bit of a run-in with a Klingon vessel, but he had no stomach for fighting. We checked the encampment, found out you were here, and had no trouble at all in tracking you down. I could
He is interrupted by the baby crying.
Mccoy said: No, that's not the way to handle it. Here, like this. Here, take his little head like that. There, arm in a. That's it. See how easy? Oochy-woochy coochy-coo. Oochy-woochy coochy-coo.
Spock said: Oochy-woochy coochy-coo, Captain?
Kirk said: An obscure Earth dialect, Mister Spock. Oochy-woochy coochy-coo. If you're curious, consult linguistics.
Spock said: Well, at any rate, this should prove interesting.
Kirk said: Interesting?
Spock said: When the woman starts explaining how the new high teer is actually Doctor McCoy's child.
Scott said: What's that again, Mister Spock?
Kirk said: We don't actually understand it ourselves, Mister Scott.
Spock said: Nor does Doctor McCoy.
Oochy-woochy coochy-coo. Oochy-woochy coochy-coo.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Contact Starfleet. Inform them the Federation mining rights on Capella have been secured by treaty, documents signed by the young high chief's regent. Report follows.
Uhura said: Aye, aye, sir.
Spock said: The child's regent?
Kirk said: Yes, Eleen. Remarkable young lady.
Mccoy said: Representing the high teer, Leonard James Akaar.
Spock said: The child was named Leonard James Akaar?
Mccoy said: Has a kind of a ring to it, don't you think, James?
Kirk said: Yes. I think it's a name destined to go down in galactic history, Leonard. What do you think, Spock?
Spock said: I think you're both going to be insufferably pleased with yourselves for at least a month, sir.
Kirk said: Take us out of orbit, Mister Sulu. Ahead warp factor one.