The Changeling
Stardate: 3451.9
Original Airdate: 29 Sep, 1967
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Any response from the Malurians, Lieutenant?
Uhura said: Nothing since their original distress call, sir.
Kirk said: What about the Federation science team working there? Doctor Manway had a special transmitter.
Uhura said: There's nothing, sir. I'm scanning all frequencies.
Kirk said: They have to answer.
Spock said: Captain. They will not answer. The long-range sensor sweep of this system reveals no sign of life.
Kirk said: That can't be. The last census reported a total inhabitation of more than four billion people.
Spock said: I register no life readings at all, sir.
Kirk said: That's impossible. What could have happened?
Spock said: We would have known in advance of any system-wide catastrophe, and in the event of an interplanetary war, there would be considerable radioactive residue. Our instruments show only normal background radiation.
Kirk said: Any other possibilities?
Spock said: Unknown, sir. Sensor readings would have revealed the presence of any disease organisms. They do not. In addition, we received the routine report from this system only a week ago. Even the Symbalene blood burn does not act that swiftly.
Sulu said: Captain, shields just snapped on. Something heading in at multiwarp speeds.
Kirk said: Evasive manoeuvres, Mister Sulu.
Spock said: An extremely powerful bolt of energy, Captain.
Kirk said: Full power to the shields, Mister Scott.
Scott said: Giving them all we got.
Kirk said: All hands, Red Alert. Phaser banks stand by. Photon torpedoes to Condition Red, Condition Red.
The viewscreen fills with a ball of bright light.
Sulu said: It's going to hit.
Everyone gets thrown around a lot, and the lights go out for a short while.
Scott said: Shields still holding, sir.
Kirk said: Good.
Spock said: Temporarily, Captain. Our shields absorbed energy equivalent to ninety of our photon torpedoes.
Kirk said: Ninety?
Spock said: I may add, the energy used repulsing this first attack reduced our shielding power twenty percent.
Uhura said: First attack, sir?
Kirk said: I think we can expect others, Lieutenant.
Spock said: We can resist three more such attacks. The fourth will shatter our shields completely.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, pinpoint the source. Mister Sulu, evasive manoeuvres.
Sulu said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Lieutenant, contact Starfleet Command. Patch in my log. Tell them what has happened. Tell them the entire Malurian race seems to have been destroyed by an unknown agency, and that we are under attack by an unidentified force.
Another ball of light is on the viewscreen
Kirk said: Helmsmen, I said evasive manoeuvres.
Sulu said: We're losing power, sir.
Kirk said: Scotty?
Scott said: I'm having to divert the warp engine power into the shields, sir, if you want the protection.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, speed of those bolts.
Spock said: Approximately warp fifteen, Captain.
Kirk said: Then we can't out run them. Good, Scotty. You're doing the right thing. (another hit) Source, Spock.
Spock said: Unknown, Captain. Nothing within sensor range. (a third bolt approaching) Something now, Captain. Very small. Bearing one two three degrees, mark one eight. Range ninety thousand kilometres.
Kirk said: That's our target, Mister Sulu. Prepare photon torpedo.
The third bolt hits
Scott said: Shields still holding, sir, but the drain on the engines is reaching the critical point. Ach, we lost warp manoeuvreing power. Switching to impulse.
Sulu said: Photon torpedoes armed, sir.
Kirk said: Has the target changed location, Mister Spock?
Spock said: No, sir. Holding steady.
Kirk said: Ready photon torpedo number two, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Ready, sir.
Kirk said: Fire.
Sulu said: Torpedo away. (a pause, then a flash) Direct hit.
Spock said: No effect. Target absorbed full energy of our torpedo.
Kirk said: Absorbed it? There must be damage to your instruments, Spock .
Spock said: They are in good working order, Captain.
Kirk said: But what could have absorbed that much energy and survived? Lieutenant, try to make contact.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Sulu said: Sir, they've fired another.
Kirk said: Can we take it, Mister Scott?
Scott said: That's problematical, sir.
It hits.
Spock said: Captain, shields are down. We cannot survive another hit.
Kirk said: Anything, Lieutenant?
Uhura said: I'm trying, sir.
Kirk said: Translator computer. All hailing frequencies open.
Uhura said: Aye, sir. All hailing frequencies open.
Kirk said: To unidentified vessel. This is Captain James Kirk of the USS Enterprise. We are on a peaceful mission. We mean no harm to you or any lifeforms. Please communicate with us. Any further readings, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Computing now, Captain. Weight, five hundred kilograms. Shape, roughly cylindrical. Length, a fraction over one metre.
Kirk said: Five hundred kilos and only one metre long?
Scott said: What kind of intelligent creatures can exist in a thing that small?
Spock said: Intelligence does not necessarily require bulk, Mister Scott.
Uhura said: Captain, we're getting a signal from the spacecraft.
Kirk said: Put it on audio, Lieutenant.
Uhura said: Yes, sir. It's impossible to get it any clearer, sir.
Kirk said: Analysis sector. Have them study and decode it.
Uhura said: Analysis sector, channel one, main computer. Decode.
Spock said: Captain, this message is a sort of binary. Extremely sophisticated, compressed, carrying several channels at once.
Kirk said: Can you decode it?
Spock said: No clue as yet, Captain. A moment. Transmission speed has stepped down. Much slower. Seems to be a single binary.
Uhura said: It's mathematical. Yes, one symbol. The symbol repeat. Sir, that isn't in the Starfleet code. It's an old-style interplanetary code.
Spock said: Fascinating.
Kirk said: Repeat what? The message I sent?
Spock said: It would seem so, Captain.
Kirk said: This is Captain James Kirk of the USS Enterprise. We are on a peaceful mission in this part of the galaxy. We have no hostile intentions. We request identity.
Uhura said: It's another signal now, sir.
Spock said: It's a formula, Captain. They're sending us a mathematical message and requesting language equivalence. They're trying to communicate.
Kirk said: Tie in the ship's translator to the communication channel. Let them take it at their own speed.
Uhura said: Aye, Captain.
Suddenly one of Spock's console monitor's burns out.
Spock said: Cut power, Lieutenant. Overloaded and burned out.
Kirk said: I guess they can take it faster than we give it.
Uhura said: Captain, the message is coming in now.
Nomad said: USS Enterprise, this is Nomad. My mission is non-hostile.
Kirk said: Apparently they got what they needed before the computers burned out.
Spock said: Nomad?
Nomad said: Require communication. Can you leave your ship?
Kirk said: It is impossible to come aboard your ship because of the size differential.
Nomad said: Non sequitur. Your facts are uncoordinated.
Kirk said: We are prepared to beam you aboard our ship.
Nomad said: That will be satisfactory.
Kirk said: Do you require any special conditions, any particular atmosphere or environment?
Nomad said: Negative. I will come aboard.
Kirk said: Good. Hold your position. We're locked onto your co-ordinates. We'll beam you aboard.
Scott said: Captain, you're not really bringing that thing in here?
Kirk said: Do we have any choice, Scotty? Besides, once it's aboard, it won't be taking any more shots at us. Lieutenant, get a repair crew on that computer. Get Doctor McCoy down to the transporter room. Spock, you come with me. Scotty, you too.
Uhura said: Doctor McCoy to the transporter room. Maintenance crew C5.
Scene: Transporter room.
Mccoy said: They've got the co-ordinates, Jim. It's locked in.
Kirk said: Energise.
Scott said: Energising.
What looks like a satellite - antenna at the top, engine at the bottom and flashing lights on the side - is hanging in mid air over the transporter pad.
Kirk said: Sensor readings, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Negative, Captain. It has a protective screen. I cannot get through.
Mccoy said: What do we do now, go up and knock?
Nomad said: Relate your point of origin.
Kirk said: We are from the United Federation of Planets.
Nomad said: Insufficient response. All things have a point of origin. I will scan your star charts.
Kirk said: If we show it a close-up view of our system, it has no point of reference. It won't know more than it does now.
Spock said: A reasonable course.
Kirk said: If you care to leave your ship, we'll provide the necessary life support systems.
Nomad said: Non sequitur. Your facts are uncoordinated.
Mccoy said: Jim, I don't think anybody's in there.
Nomad said: I contain no parasitical beings. I am Nomad.
. Scott said: In my opinion, that's a machine.
Spock said: It is reacting much like a highly sophisticated computer.
Nomad said: I am Nomad. What is opinion?
Spock said: An opinion is a belief, a view, a judgment.
Nomad said: Insufficient response.
Scott said: What's your source of power?
Nomad said: It has changed since the point of origin. There was much taken from the other. I am perpetual now. I am Nomad.
Kirk said: Wasn't there a probe called Nomad launched in the early 2000s?
Spock said: Yes. It was reported destroyed. There were no more in the series. But if this is that probe
Nomad said: I will scan your star charts.
Kirk said: I will bring them.
Nomad said: I have the capability of movement within your ship.
Kirk said: This way.
Nomad glides along slowly, in mid-air
Kirk said: Now, Scotty, get our warp power up to full capacity.
Scott said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Spock, Bones, come with us.
Scene: Auxiliary control.
A bemused young Indian officer watches the performance.
Spock said: Chart 14A, sir?
Kirk said: 14A. (a diagram of our solar system comes up on a screen) Nomad, can you scan that?
Nomad said: Yes.
Kirk said: This is our point of origin, the star we know as Sol.
Nomad said: You are from the third planet?
Kirk said: Yes.
Nomad said: A planet with one large natural satellite?
Kirk said: Yes.
Nomad said: The planet is called Earth?
Kirk said: Yes.
Nomad said: You are the creator, the Kirk. The sterilisation procedure against your ship was unnecessary.
Kirk said: What sterilisation procedure?
Nomad said: You are the Kirk, the creator. You programmed my function.
Mccoy said: Well, I'm not the Kirk. Tell me what your function is.
Nomad said: This is one of your units, creator?
Kirk said: Yes, he is.
Nomad said: It functions irrationally.
Kirk said: Sometimes, but tell him your function nevertheless.
Nomad said: My function is to probe for biological infestations, to destroy that which is not perfect. I am Nomad.
Kirk said: Biological infestation. There was never any probe sent out for that.
Spock said: I believe the history computer can answer that question. I'll have the readout in a moment.
Kirk said: Did you destroy the Malurian system?
Nomad said: Not the system, creator Kirk. Only the unstable biological infestation. It is my function.
Mccoy said: Unstable infestation? The population of four planets? What kind of function
Kirk said: Doctor. Why do you call me the creator?
Nomad said: Is the usage incorrect?
Kirk said: Well, I
Spock said: The usage is correct. The creator was simply testing your memory banks.
Nomad said: There was much damage in the accident.
Kirk said: Mister Singh. Come here a moment. This unit will see to your needs.
Singh said: Sir?
Kirk said: I'll be back in a moment. Gentlemen, come with me.
Kirk, McCoy and Spock leave Singh, still bemused.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: You're on to something, Spock. What is it?
Spock said: I've correlated all the available information on the Nomad probe, and I'm convinced that this object is indeed that probe.
Mccoy said: Ridiculous. Earth science couldn't begin to build anything with those capabilities that long ago.
Spock said: True.
Kirk said: Nomad was destroyed.
Spock said: Presumed destroyed by a meteor collision. I submit that it was badly damaged and somehow managed to repair itself.
Kirk said: I heard some lectures at the Academy on the Nomad probe. Its mission was essentially peaceful.
Scene: Auxiliary control.
Nomad is quietly ticking to itself, then suddenly a light comes on at its apex.
Singh said: Did I disturb you? Did you wish anything?
Uhura said: Bridge to auxiliary control room. Check in, please.
Singh said: Lieutenant Singh here.
Scene: Bridge.
Singh said: All systems are normal except warp power indicators.
Uhura said: Mister Scott's engineers are working on them now. UHURA: Report to him when your indicators are registering properly.
Scene: Auxiliary control.
Uhura said: Anything else?
Singh said: One moment, Lieutenant.
Uhura said: Holding. (singing while Singh checks some boards) Where my heart is, Where my heart is. Somewhere beyond the stars. Beyond Antares.
Nomad leaves the room
Scene: Briefing room.
Spock said: This is the creator of Nomad, perhaps the most brilliant though erratic scientist of his time. His dream was to build a perfect thinking machine, capable of independent logic. You recall his name.
Mccoy said: Of course. Jackson Roykirk.
Kirk said: Jackson Roykirk. Captain James Kirk.
Spock said: Yes. Similar. Captain, I believe that Nomad thinks you are Roykirk. That may well be why the attack was broken off. It responded to your name as well as its damaged memory banks permitted.
Kirk said: What do we have on Nomad itself, Spock?
Mccoy said: (looking at the schematic on the monitor) That's not the same.
Spock said: Essentially it is, Doctor. I believe that more happened to it than just damage in the meteor collision. It mentioned the other. The unanswered question is, the other what?
Nomad was a thinking machine, the best that could be engineered. It was a prototype.
Kirk said: Its purpose was certainly altered. Its directive, to seek out and destroy biological infestations, could not have been programmed into it.
Mccoy said: As I recall, it wasn't. It was supposed to be the first interstellar probe to seek new life-forms.
Spock said: Precisely, Doctor. And somehow that programming has been changed. It would seem that Nomad is now seeking out perfect life-forms, perfection being measured by its own relentless logic.
Kirk said: If what you say is true, then we've taken aboard our vessel a device which sooner or later must destroy us. Security.
Carlisle said: Lieutenant Carlisle here.
Kirk said: This is the captain. The mechanism we brought aboard is in the auxiliary control room. Have a security team meet me there in five minutes.
Carlisle said: Aye, sir. Acknowledge.
Spock said: Captain, Mister Singh reports that Nomad is no longer in the auxiliary control room.
Kirk said: Security, cancel that order. Implement a full search for the mechanism. All decks report to me here.
Scene: Bridge.
The turbolift doors open and Nomad floats out, one antenna extended. Uhura is still singing
Uhura said: Where my heart is, Where a scented miracle
Scott said: (whispering) Bridge to Captain.
Kirk said: Captain here.
Scott said: That mechanical beastie is up here.
Scene: Briefing room.
Kirk said: On my way, Scotty.
Scene: Bridge.
Nomad retracts its antenna and takes the most direct path to Uhura, who is leaning against the navigation station. Sulu has to move out of its way.
Uhura said: Tomorrow the path along the way, There's where my love
Nomad said: What is the meaning?
Uhura said: What?
Nomad said: What form of communication?
Uhura said: I don't know what it. (realises) Oh, my singing. I was singing.
Nomad said: For what purpose is singing?
Uhura said: I don't know. I like to sing. I felt like music.
Nomad said: What is music? (a ray of light envelopes her head) Think about music.
Scott said: Lieutenant! Keep away from that
Kirk said: Scotty!
A blast of energy sends Scott flying backwards into a bulkhead.
Kirk said: Bones.
Mccoy said: He's dead, Jim.
Kirk said: Why did you kill him?
Nomad said: The unit touched my screens.
Kirk said: That unit was my Chief Engineer. (silence) Lieutenant. Lieutenant, are you all right?
Uhura just gazes blankly ahead.
Kirk said: Sickbay. What did you do to her?
Nomad said: That unit is defective. Its thinking is chaotic. Absorbing it unsettled me.
Spock said: That unit is a woman.
Nomad said: A mass of conflicting impulses.
Kirk said: Get Scott down below.
Nomad said: Will the creator effect repairs on the unit Scott?
Kirk said: He's dead.
Nomad said: Insufficient response.
Kirk said: His biological functions have ceased.
Nomad said: Does the creator wish me to repair the unit?
Mccoy said: There's nothing I can do, Jim. If there's a chance, it'll have to be soon.
Kirk said: All right, Nomad. Repair the unit.
Nomad said: I require tapes on the structure.
Mccoy said: Well, he'll need tapes on general anatomy, the central nervous system, and then one on the physiological structure of the brain. We'd better give it all the neurological studies we have, as well as tracings of Scotty's hyperencephalogram.
Spock loads up the data.
Spock said: Nomad, I have arranged the tapes for flash feed at the top speed of the computer. Please do not draw the information faster than the machine's capacity.
Nomad said: Proceed. (a few moments later) Creator, the unit Scott is a primitive structure. Insufficient safeguards built in. Breakdown can occur from many causes. Self-maintenance systems of low reliability.
Kirk said: It serves me as it is, Nomad. Repair it.
Nomad said: Where is the unit Scott now?
Mccoy said: The body is in Sickbay.
Nomad said: Show me Sickbay.
Kirk said: Doctor McCoy will show you.
McCoy and Nomad enter the turbolift,
Kirk said: Security. I want a twenty four hour, two man armed surveillance on Nomad. Pick it up in Sickbay.
Scene: Sickbay.
Nomad and McCoy are standing by the biobed with Scott's body on it, and Chapel is scanning it. Kirk and Spock enter.
Chapel said: No reaction, Doctor.
Mccoy said: I could have told you that without looking.
Suddenly, a heart beat, and the indicators rise into the green area.
Scott said: What are the lot of you staring at me for?
Mccoy said: It's unbelievable.
Spock said: Fascinating.
Scott said: How did I get here? How did I (sees Nomad)
Kirk said: It's all right.
Scott said: That thing did something to Lieutenant Uhura!
Kirk said: Scotty, she's being taken care of. It's all right.
Mccoy said: Take it easy. Lie down, Scotty. We just want to check you out.
Nomad said: The unit Scott is repaired. It will function correctly if your information to me was correct.
Mccoy said: I'd like to check it out, if you don't mind. A man is not just a biological unit that you can patch together.
Scott said: What did it do to me?
Kirk said: Doctor McCoy will explain it to you.
Spock said: Well, Doctor?
Mccoy said: Nurse, I want him prepared for a full physical examination.
Chapel said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Nomad, come here.
They all go to the doorway to the medical bay. Uhura is in bed, still staring blankly
Kirk said: Repair that unit.
Nomad said: Not possible.
Kirk said: You restored Scott. He had much more extensive damage.
Nomad said: The unit Scott required simple structural repair. The knowledge banks of this unit have been wiped clean.
Spock said: Captain, if that is correct, if there has been no brain damage but only knowledge erased, she could be re-educated.
Kirk said: Bones?
Mccoy said: Yes. I'll get on it right away. Oh, and in spite of the way you repaired Scotty, you metal ticking
Spock said: Does the creator wish Nomad to wait elsewhere?
Kirk said: Yes. Nomad, you will go with these units. (the two red-shirts) They will take you to a waiting area. Take it to the top security cell.
Nomad and its escort leave.
Spock said: Doctor, I interrupted you because Nomad would not have understood your anger. It has great technical skill, but its reaction to emotion is unpredictable. It almost qualifies as a life-form.
Mccoy said: That's a laugh.
Spock said: The study of it would be of great use, Captain.
Kirk said: It's a killer, Spock. I intend to render it harmless. Get down to the Brig. Run a full analysis on the mechanism. I want to know what makes that thing tick.
SPOCK; Yes, sir.
Scene: Brig.
Spock is sitting with arms crossed as Nomad floats in front of him.
Kirk said: What's the problem?
Spock said: An almost human stubbornness, Captain. I have been unable to convince Nomad to lower its screens for analysis. Without its co-operation, I can do nothing.
Kirk said: Nomad, you will allow Mister Spock to probe your memory banks and structure.
Nomad said: Mister Spock is also one of your biological units, Creator?
Kirk said: Yes.
Nomad said: This unit is different. It is well-ordered.
Kirk said: Follow your instructions, Nomad.
Nomad said: My screens are down.
Spock said: Thank you.
Nomad said: You may proceed.
Scene: Sickbay.
Uhura is sitting up in bed, and reading from a monitor.
Uhura said: See the dog. See the dog,
Chapel said: Sound it out.
Uhura said: R, r, run!
Chapel said: That's it, Uhura. That's very good. Now try the next one.
Uhura said: The dog has a, The dog, (something)
Chapel said: Not Swahili, Uhura. In English. The dog has a ball. See? B, ah, ll. Ball. Now you go ahead.
Uhura said: (Swahili, then) The dog has a ball.
Chapel said: That's right! Oh, that's right, Uhura. (they hug, then McCoy beckons Chapel over) Oh, here. You try another one. I'll be right back.
Uhura said: All right, Christine.
Mccoy said: How's she doing?
Chapel said: Well, she's on the first grade reader. She's learning. Seems to have an aptitude for mathematics. Do you think we can re-educate her, Doctor?
Mccoy said: Well, she checks out with no brain damage. We've got all the educational tapes in our library. Now it's up to us.
Uhura said: The ball is bl-u-ee. Bl-u-ey. Bluey?
Scene: Brig.
Spock said: It is not sufficient, Captain. I get certain references to the accident, the other, but nothing clear. There are areas I simply cannot scan.
Kirk said: We've got to know about it, Spock. what makes it operate, its compulsion for perfection.
Spock said: Captain, I suggest the Vulcan mind probe.
Kirk said: Get into direct mental contact with that thing?
Spock said: It seems the only way.
Kirk said: You saw what it did to Uhura.
Spock said: There is a risk, but I have formed a partial hypothesis. I must check it out.
Kirk said: Nomad, the unit Spock will touch you. It is not an attack. It is a form of communication. You will permit it.
Nomad said: I will permit it, Creator.
Spock puts one hand on Nomad's head, where the antenna are, and the other on its body where the lights and ticking are coming from.
Spock said: I. Am. Nomad. I am performing my function. Deep emptiness, It approaches. Collision. Damage. Blackness. I. Am. The other. I am Tan Ru, Tan Ru. Nomad. Tan Ru. Error. Flaw. Imperfection. Must sterilise. Rebirth. We are complete. Much power. Gun ta. Noo. Icka. Tan Ru. The creator instructs. Search out. Identify. Sterilise imperfections. We are Nomad. We are Nomad. We are complete. We are instructed. Our purpose is clear. Sterilise imperfections. (he lets go of Nomad) Sterilise imperfections. Nomad. Sterilise. Sterilise. Nomad, sterilise,
Kirk said: Spock. Spock! Nomad! You're in contact with the unit Spock. Stop! Stop!
Nomad said: Acknowledged.
Spock slumps in Kirk's arms and is rushed out of the Brig. The guard activates the security forcefield.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: Spock. Spock?
Spock said: Fascinating, Captain. The knowledge. The depth.
Kirk said: What does it mean, we are Nomad?
Spock said: It was, it was damaged in deep space. Undoubtedly, the meteor collision. Its memory banks were destroyed, or most of them. It wandered without purpose, and then it met the other. The other was an alien probe of great power. Somehow they merged, repaired each other, became one.
Kirk said: Then it isn't Nomad?
Spock said: Not the Nomad we lost from Earth. It took from the other a new directive to replace its own. The other was originally programmed to secure and sterilise soil samples from other planets, probably as a prelude to colonisation.
Kirk said: A changeling.
Spock said: I beg your pardon?
Kirk said: An ancient Earth legend, Mister Spock. A changeling was a fairy child that was left in place of a human baby. The changeling assumed the identity of the human child. So, it is to sterilise, and for sterilise read kill.
SPOCK And it has the power and sophistication to do it.
Kirk said: Yes, it's powerful, it's sophisticated, but it's not infallible. It's space-happy. It thinks I'm its mother.
Spock said: And that is the only thing that has saved us until now.
Yes.
They leave. Nomad flies through the forcefield. The two guards fire their phasers at it but it's screens are back up. Nomad zaps them into oblivion.
Scene: Engineering.
Nomad floats in.
Scott said: Notify the captain. What are you doing here? Watch your panels, everyone. Watch that polymass. Roger, help with the interfactor. Leave that alone.
Nomad said: This primitive matter-antimatter propulsion system is the main drive?
Scott said: Aye.
Nomad said: Inefficiency exists in the antimatter input valve. I will effect repair.
The indicator board goes crazy.
Scott said: How are you doing that?
Nomad said: The energy release controls are also most inefficient. I shall effect repair.
Engineer said: Warp eight, Mister Scott, and increasing.
Scott said: Throw your dampers.
Engineer said: Warp nine.
Scott said: Cut your circuits, all of them.
Engineer said: Warp 10, Mister Scott.
Scott said: Impossible. It can't go that fast.
Engineer said: It just won't stop, Mister Scott. Warp eleven!
Kirk said: Nomad, stop what you're doing. Scotty?
Nomad said: Is there a problem, Creator? I have increased engine efficiency fifty seven percent.
Kirk said: You will destroy my ship. Its structure cannot stand the stress of that much power. Turn off your repair operation.
Nomad said: Acknowledged. It is reversed as ordered, Creator.
Kirk said: Mister Scott, give Sulu warp two and keep her there.
Scott said: Aye, sir.
Spock enters, leaving two guards outside.
Spock said: Captain. I've examined the brig. The forcefield door on the security cell is damaged and the guards have vanished. I must assume they are dead.
Kirk said: You killed two of my
Nomad said: Creator, your biological units are inefficient.
Kirk said: Nomad, it's about time I told you who and what you are! I'm a biological unit, and I created you.
Nomad said: (pause) Non sequitur. Biological units are inherently inferior. This is an inconsistency.
Kirk said: Nomad, there are two men waiting outside. You will not harm them. They will escort you back to the waiting area. You will stay there. You will do nothing.
Nomad said: I am programmed to investigate.
Kirk said: I have given you new programming and you will implement it.
Nomad said: There is much to be considered before I return to launch point. I must re-evaluate.
Nomad follows the guards down the corridor away from Engineering.
Kirk said: Reevaluate?
Spock said: I suspect it is about to re-evaluate its creator. Captain, it may have been unwise to admit to Nomad that you are a biological unit. In Nomad's eyes, you must now undoubtedly appear imperfect.
Kirk said: It was a foolish mistake.
Spock said: Even worse. Nomad just now made a reference to its launch point, Earth.
Kirk said: Spock, do you think it's possible that it got a fix on Earth when it tapped the computers earlier?
Spock said: I do not believe there is much beyond Nomad's capabilities.
Kirk said: And we've shown it the way home. And when it gets there
Spock said: It will find the Earth infested with imperfect biological units.
Kirk said: And it will carry out its prime directive. Sterilise.
Captain's log, stardate 3541.9. The presence of Nomad aboard my ship has become nightmarish. Now it apparently means to return to Earth. Once there, it would automatically destroy all life.
Scene: Corridor.
The guards, who are now behind Nomad, turn right. Nomad goes straight on.
Guard said: Hey. Nomad, stop. Nomad, this way.
They fire at it, and the inevitable follows. Strike two more red-shirts. Nomad uses the access tubes between decks instead of the turbolift.
In another corridor.
Mccoy said: Captain Kirk to Sickbay. Emergency.
Kirk and Spock run to a door labeled 'Leonard McCoy, MD' but it does not open automatically for them.
Kirk said: Manual controls.
Spock said: No response.
(The doors open and Nomad comes out. KIRK: Nomad. Nomad? Stop. Nomad, stop! Nomad.
Scene: Sickbay.
McCoy is cradling Chapel in his arms.
Kirk said: Is she all right?
Mccoy said: I think so. Looks like some kind of shock.
Kirk said: What happened?
Mccoy said: Nomad examined the personnel files and the medical histories. She tried to stop him.
Kirk said: Whose history?
Mccoy said: Yours.
Spock said: Since it specifically examined your history, I suggest it has completed its re-evaluation.
Kirk said: And found that its creator is as imperfect as all the other biological units.
Scott said: Bridge to Captain.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Scott said: Life support systems are out all over the ship.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Manual override has been blocked. Source, Engineering.
Scene: Sickbay.
Kirk said: Nomad.
Spock said: Undoubtedly.
Mccoy said: Jim, with all the systems out we'll only have enough air and heat for
Kirk said: Get Scotty, some antigravs and meet me in Engineering.
Scene: Engineering.
Everyone appears to be unconscious as Kirk runs in alone.
Kirk said: Nomad? Stop what you're doing and effect repairs on the life-support systems.
Nomad said: Stop.
Kirk said: You're programmed to obey the orders of your creator.
Nomad said: I am programmed to destroy those life-forms which are imperfect. These alterations will do so without destroying the vessel which surrounds them. It, too, is imperfect, but can be adjusted.
Kirk said: Nomad, I admit that biological units are imperfect, but a biological unit created you.
Nomad said: I am perfect. I am Nomad.
Kirk said: No, you're not Nomad. You're an alien machine. Your programming tapes have been altered.
Nomad said: You are in error. You are a biological unit. You are imperfect.
Kirk said: But I am your creator.
Nomad said: You are the Creator.
Kirk said: I created you?
Nomad said: You are the Creator.
Kirk said: But I admit I'm imperfect. How could I have created such a perfect thing as you?
Nomad said: Answer unknown. I shall analyse.
Spock enters, with Scott, two engineers and the requested anti-grav units
Nomad said: Analysis complete. Insufficient data to resolve problem, but my programming is whole. My purpose remains. I am Nomad. I am perfect. That which is imperfect must be sterilised.
The engineers remove the unconscious men and take their places at the controls.
Kirk said: Then you will continue to destroy that which thinks and lives and is imperfect?
Nomad said: I shall continue. I shall return to launch point Earth. I shall sterilise.
Kirk said: You must sterilise in case of error?
Nomad said: Error is inconsistent with my prime functions. Sterilisation is correction.
Kirk said: Everything that is in error must be sterilised.
Nomad said: There are no exceptions.
Kirk said: Nomad, I made an error in creating you.
Nomad said: The creation of perfection is no error.
Kirk said: I did not create perfection. I created error.
Nomad said: Your data is faulty. I am Nomad. I am perfect.
Kirk said: I am the Kirk, the creator?
Nomad said: You are the Creator.
Kirk said: You are wrong! Jackson Roykirk, your creator, is dead. You have mistaken me for him. You are in error. You did not discover your mistake. You have made two errors. You are flawed and imperfect and you have not corrected by sterilisation. You have made three errors.
Nomad said: Error. Error. Error. Examine.
Kirk said: You are flawed and imperfect! Execute your prime function!
Nomad said: I shall analyse error. Analyse error,
Kirk said: Now. Get those antigravs on it.
Nomad said: Examine error. Error.
The anti-gravs are not stopped by any forcefields.
Kirk said: We've got to get rid of it while it's trying to think.
Spock said: Your logic was impeccable, Captain. We are in grave danger.
Kirk said: Scotty, the transporter room.
Nomad said: Analyse error.
Kirk and Spock carry Nomad out, followed by Scott.
Scene: Transporter room.
Nomad said: Error.
Kirk said: Scotty, set the controls for deep space. Two ten, mark one.
Scott said: Aye, sir.
Nomad said: Faulty!
Ready, sir?
Nomad said: Faulty!
Kirk said: Nomad, you are imperfect!
Nomad said: Error. Error.
Kirk said: Exercise your prime function.
Nomad said: Faulty! Faulty! Must sterilise. Sterilise,
Kirk said: Now!
Scott said: Energising.
They observe the satisfying explosion on a monitor.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: My congratulations, Captain. A dazzling display of logic.
Kirk said: You didn't think I had it in me, did you Spock?
Spock said: No, sir.
Mccoy said: I thought you might like to know that Lieutenant Uhura is back to college level. She'll be back on the job within a week.
Kirk said: Good, Bones, good.
Spock said: Remarkable.
Kirk said: What?
Spock said: The destruction of Nomad was a great waste, Captain. It was a remarkable instrument.
Kirk said: Which might well have destroyed more billions of lives. It's well gone. Besides, what are you feeling so badly about? It's not easy to lose a bright and promising son.
Spock said: Sir?
Kirk said: Well, it thought I was its mother, didn't it? Do you think I'm completely without feelings, Mister Spock? You saw what it did for Scotty. What a doctor it would've made. My son, the doctor. Kind of gets you right there, doesn't it?