Mirror, Mirror
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 6 Oct, 1967
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk, Scott, McCoy and Uhura are with the local leader, when lightning threatens.
Tharn said: We believe what you say, Captain Kirk, but our position has not altered. The Halkan Council cannot permit your Federation to mine dilithium crystals on our planet.
Kirk said: We have shown the council historical proof that our missions are peaceful.
Tharn said: We accept that your Federation is benevolent at present, but the future is always in question. Our dilithium crystals represent awesome power. Wrongful use of that power, even to the extent of the taking of one life, would violate our history of total peace. To prevent that, we would die, Captain. As a race, if necessary.
Kirk said: I admire your ethics and hope to prove ours. Kirk to Enterprise.
Spock said: Spock here.
Kirk said: Report on magnetic storm, Mister Spock.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Standard ion type, Captain, but quite violent (Enterprise shakes) and unpredictable.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: Rough ride?
Spock said: If we stay.
Kirk said: Stand by to beam up landing party.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Plot an extended orbit to clear disturbance. Kirk out.
Spock said: Comply, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Aye, sir.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: When may we resume discussion?
Tharn said: The council will meditate further, but do not be hopeful of any change. Captain, you do have the might to force the crystals from us, of course.
Kirk said: But we won't. Consider that. Enterprise. Transporter room, energise.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kyle said: Trouble, sir.
Four figures start to materialise, then disappear again. The image of Enterprise in orbit reverses itself. Finally, four figures solidify, wearing strange uniforms with gold sashes. Uhura's midriff is bare.
Kirk said: Spock was right. It was a rough trip.
Spock and Kyle greet their Captain with a semi-Nazi salute. Their uniforms have changes, and Spock has grown a very fetching goatee beard.
Spock said: At norm, Mister Kyle. Controls at neutral.
Kyle said: Yes, sir.
Spock said: Status of mission, Captain?
Kirk said: No change.
Spock said: Standard procedure, Captain? (Kirk nods) Mister Sulu, you will programme phaser barrage on Halkan cities.
Sulu said: Yes, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Their military capability, Captain?
Kirk said: None.
Spock said: Regrettable that this society has chosen suicide. Mister Kyle, you were instructed to compensate during the ion storm.
Kyle said: But I tried, Mister Spock, I tried.
Spock said: Carelessness with the equipment cannot be tolerated.
Kyle said: But Mister Spock, I
Spock said: Your agoniser.
Kyle said: No, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Your agoniser, please.
A guard restrains Kyle and takes a device from his belt.
Kyle said: No, Mister Spock! I tried. I really tried.
Spock places the device on Kyle's collar bone, and he writhes in agony. When it is removed, he collapses.
Captain's log, stardate unknown. During an ion storm, my landing party has beamed back to the Enterprise and found it and the personnel aboard changed. The ship is subtly altered physically. Behaviour and discipline has become brutal, savage.
Scene: Transporter room.
Spock said: Mister Scott, the storm has caused some minor damage in your section. There are also injuries requiring your attention, Doctor. Well, gentlemen?
Kyle said: Mister Spock.
Spock said: Yes.
Kyle said: The power beam jumped for a moment, sir, as the landing party was about to materialise. I never saw it happen before.
Spock said: Due to your error, Mister Kyle?
Kyle said: No, Mister Spock. Before.
Spock said: Possibly a result of the severe storm. Captain, do you feel any abnormal effects?
Kirk said: Yes. Doctor McCoy, you'd better look us over. That was a rough beam-up.
Mccoy said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, have those transporter circuits checked.
Scene: Corridor.
Scott said: Captain, what is all this?
Uhura said: How did we get in these
Kirk said: Not now. Not now.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: What is this? Everything's all messed up and changed around, out of place.
Uhura said: Captain, what's happened?
Mccoy said: No, not everything. That spot, I spilt acid there a year ago. Jim, What in blazes is this?
Kirk said: I don't know. It's our Enterprise but it isn't. Maybe
Uhura said: Maybe what, Captain?
Kirk said: Any of you feel dizzy when we were in the transporter beam?
Uhura said: Yes.
Scott said: Aye.
Kirk said: When we first materialised.
Scott said: I did.
Kirk said: It happened twice. First we were in our own transporter chamber, then we faded, and then when we finally materialised, we were here. Wherever this is.
Scott said: Captain, the transporter chief mentioned a surge of power. The transporter lock might have been affected by the ion storm and we just materialised somewhere else.
Kirk said: Yes, here. Not our universe, not our ship. Something parallel. A parallel universe co-existing with ours on another dimensional plane. Everything's duplicated, almost. Another Enterprise. Spock with a beard.
Uhura said: Another Captain Kirk, another Doctor McCoy, another
Mccoy said: An exchange. If we're here
Kirk said: Then our counterparts must have been transporting up at the exact same time. Similar storms on both universes disrupted the circuits. We're here, and they're on our Enterprise. Probably asking the same questions. Are we in another universe, and if so, how do we get back to our own? They'll use the computer, and we have to.
Mccoy said: What about the Halkans? We can't let them be destroyed.
Kirk said: Scotty, can you buy me some time. Get below and short out the main phaser couplings. They'll think the storm blew the stand-by circuits.
Scott said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Then get on this technology. It's all we have to work with if we want to get back home. The intercom may be monitored. Use your communicators for private messages. Subfrequency and scramble.
Scott said: Aye, sir.
Scott leaves
Kirk said: Lieutenant.
Uhura said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Get to your post. Run today's communication from Starfleet Command. I want to know my exact orders and options, if any.
Uhura said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Bones.
Uhura said: Captain, I'm
Kirk said: Uhura, you're the only one who can do it. I'll be right there.
Uhura said: Yes, sir.
She leaves.
Kirk said: Bones. Let's take a look at the library. We have a lot to learn.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Mister Chekov, phaser setting for planetary target A.
Chekov said: Co-ordinates seven one two stroke four, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Port batteries locked.
Uhura enters, and goes to her station. Sulu goes over to her. He has a very nasty scar down his face.
Sulu said: Still no interest, Uhura? Hmm? I could change your mind.
Uhura said: You are away from your post, Mister.
Sulu said: Is the captain here? Is Spock here? When the cat's away
She slaps his hand away, then Kirk enters. Everyone salutes him.
Kirk said: Communications status.
Uhura said: No storm damage, sir. All stations report normal. (quietly) You're ordered to annihilate the Halkans unless they comply. No alternative.
Sulu said: Phasers Locked on target A, Captain. Approaching optimum range. Commence fire, Captain? Captain?
Kirk said: Stand by, Mister Sulu.
Scene: Main Phaser Power Control.
The door opens and a burly guard blocks Scott's entrance.
Scott said: I've been ordered to check phaser couplings for possible damage by the storm.
Guard said: Do you have authorisation from security, sir?
Scott said: Captain's orders.
Guard said: I'll have to check with Security Chief Sulu, sir.
Scott said: Never mind. I'll attend to it.
He goes to an intercom.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Scene: Main Phaser Power Control.
Scott said: Phaser report, sir. No damage.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Very good. Thank you, Mister Scott. Kirk out.
Spock enters the Bridge.
Spock said: Planet's rotation is carrying primary target beyond arc of phaser lock.
Sulu said: Shall I correct orbit to new firing position?
Kirk said: No.
Spock said: Lock on to secondary city.
Sulu said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura, contact the Halkan council. I wish to talk to them again.
Uhura said: Yes, sir.
Spock said: Captain?
Kirk said: This is a new race. They offer other things of value besides dilithium crystals.
Spock said: But we cannot expect their co-operation. They have refused the Empire. Command procedure dictates that we provide the customary example.
Sulu said: Secondary target now moving beyond our phaser lock.
Kirk said: Put phasers on standby, Mister Sulu.
Spock said: A serious breach of orders, Captain.
Kirk said: I have my reasons, and I'll make them clear to you in my own good time.
Uhura said: Captain, I have the leader on the Halkan Council waiting on channel B.
Kirk said: It is useless to resist us.
THARN [on viewscreen: We do not resist you.
Kirk said: You have twelve hours to consider your position.
THARN [on viewscreen: Twelve years, Captain Kirk, or twelve thousand. We are ethically compelled to deny your demand for our dilithium crystals, for you would use their power to destroy.
Kirk said: We will level your planet and take what we want. That is destruction. You will die as a race.
THARN [on viewscreen: To preserve what we are.
Kirk said: We will not argue. Twelve hours. No more. Close communications. Turn phasers off.
Sulu said: Aye, sir.
Spock said: Twelve hours, Captain? That is unprecedented.
Kirk said: I shall be in my quarters. Lieutenant Uhura, have Doctor McCoy and Mister Scott meet me there.
Chekov presses a couple of buttons on his console, then leaves his post.
Spock said: Captain, you've placed yourself in a most grave position. This conduct must be reported.
Kirk said: You're at liberty to do so, Mister Spock.
Scene: Turbolift.
Chekov said: Deck five, sir?
As Kirk leaves the lift, someone punches him in the face and he is grabbed.
Scene: Corridor.
Chekov said: (holding a phaser on Kirk) So you die, Captain, and we all move up in rank. No one will question the assassination of a captain who has disobeyed prime orders of the Empire.
Captain's log, supplemental. I command an Enterprise where officers apparently employ private henchmen among the crew, where assassination of superiors is a common means of advancing in rank.
Scene: Corridor.
Suddenly, one of Chekov's men turns against him, taking his weapon and shooting another. Kirk throws his final assailant and he gets zapped into molecules too. The turbolift opens and two armed men come out.
Man said: Your men, Captain. Easy, Farrell. I did your job. Ask the captain.
Farrell said: Sir?
Kirk said: Yes, he did your job.
Farrell said: Smart boy, switching to the top dog.
Kirk said: Get him out of here.
Man said: Mister Chekov was going to make me a chief. You could make me an officer.
Kirk said: All right. You're working for me.
Man said: A commission?
Kirk said: You're in line. You might even make captain.
Man said: Yes, sir.
Kirk punches him.
Kirk said: Not on my ship.
Farrell said: The booth for this one, sir?
Kirk said: Yes, the booth. Carry on.
Chekov is taken away.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
The three men enter warily.
Mccoy said: Here. Here. What's this?
Kirk said: It's called blood. Watch your step. The officers move up by assassination. Chekov tried it on me.
Scott said: Mister Sulu is Security Chief, like the ancient Gestapo.
Mccoy said: And my Sickbay is a chamber of horrors. My assistants were betting on the tolerance of an injured man. How long it would take him to pass out from the pain.
Kirk said: Report on technology.
Scott said: Mostly variations in instrumentation. Nothing I can't handle.
Kirk said: Star readings?
Scott said: Everything's exactly where it should be, except us.
Kirk said: Let's find out where we stand. Computer.
Computer said: (a male voice) Ready.
Kirk said: This is the Captain. Record security research, to be classified under my voice print or Mister Scott's.
Computer said: Recorded.
Kirk said: Produce all data relevant to the recent ion storm. Correlate following hypothesis. Could a storm of such magnitude cause a power surge in the transporter circuits creating a momentary interdimensional contact with a parallel universe?
Computer said: Affirmative.
Kirk said: At such a moment, could persons in each universe, in the act of beaming, transpose with their counterparts in the other universe?
Computer said: Affirmative.
Kirk said: Could conditions necessary to such an event be created artificially using the ship's power?
Computer said: Affirmative.
Kirk said: Record procedure. Scotty, can you do it?
Scott said: Not by myself. I'll need help. And you'd be too conspicuous.
Mccoy said: I'm a doctor, not an engineer.
Scott said: Now you're an engineer. I'll have to tap the power we need from the warp engines and balance it for the four of us.
Mccoy said: Jim, the way this ship is run, what kind of people are we in this universe?
Kirk said: Let's find out. Computer.
Computer said: Ready.
Kirk said: Read out official record of current command.
Computer said: Captain James T. Kirk succeeded to command ISS Enterprise through assassination of Captain Christopher Pike. First action, suppression of Gorlan uprising through destruction of rebel home planet. Second action, execution of five thousand colonists on Vega Nine.
Kirk said: Cancel. Now we know.
Scott said: Captain? We can do it.
Kirk said: Good.
Scott said: We have to lay in the automatic transporter setting, but when we interrupt engine circuits to tie the power increase into the transporter, it'll show up on Sulu's security board. Of course, we'll only need a second.
Kirk said: I'll tell Uhura to create a diversion to distract Sulu, at your signal. Let's get back to our posts. Keep me advised.
Mccoy said: Jim, if we're here, what do you suppose our counterparts doing back in our universe?
Kirk said: On our Enterprise.
Scene: Brig.
A furious duplicate Captain is being manhandled along the corridor by two security guards and thrown into the Brig. Uhura, Scott and McCoy are already there.
Kirk2 said: I order you, Let me go! Traitors! Spock, get these men off me! What is this?
Mccoy2 said: What are you doing, Spock?
Kirk2 said: You traitorous pig. I'll hang you up by your Vulcan ears. I'll have you all executed!
Spock said: I think not. Your authority on this ship is extremely limited, Captain. The four of you will remain her in the Brig and in custody until I discover how to return you to wherever it is you belong.
Kirk2 said: Has the whole galaxy gone crazy? What kind of a uniform is this? Where's your beard? What's going on? Where's my personal guard?
Spock said: I can answer none of your questions at this time.
Kirk2 said: All right, Spock. Whatever your game is, I'll play it. You want credits, I'll give them to you. You'll be a rich man. A command of your own? I can swing that, too.
Spock said: Apparently some kind of transposition has taken place. I find it extremely interesting.
Kirk2 said: Spock. What is it that will buy you? Power?
Spock said: Fascinating.
Kirk2 said: Power, Spock? I can get that for you!
Scene: Corridor.
Spock said: Captain, I am pleased that you frustrated Mister Chekov's plan. I should regret your death.
Kirk said: Why?
Spock said: I do not desire the captaincy. I much prefer my scientific duties. I am frankly content to be a lesser target.
Kirk said: Logical, as always, Mister Spock.
They arrive at a cylinder containing Chekov, who is writhing in agony.
Spock said: The agony booth is a most effective means of discipline. I presume you've ordered full duration.
Kirk said: I haven't decided.
Spock said: Indeed. His act warrants death.
Kirk said: I said I haven't decided.
Spock said: That is, of course, your affair. Captain, may I inquire if you intend to persist in your unusual course of action regarding the Halkans?
They continue walking. Farrell joins Spock's personal guard walking behind his master.
Kirk said: You heard my orders.
Spock said: They are, of course, in contradiction to standard Empire procedure. You cannot ignore the consequences.
Kirk said: Is that a threat?
Spock said: I do not threaten, Captain. I merely state facts. I have found you to be an excellent officer. Our missions together have been both successful and profitable. However, I shall not permit your aberrations to jeopardise my position.
Kirk said: Spock, do you think we should destroy the Halkans?
Spock said: Terror must be maintained or the Empire is doomed. It is the logic of history.
Kirk said: Conquest is easy, control is not. We may have bitten off more than we can chew.
Spock said: Captain, I do not wish to find myself opposing you, but if you continue on your present course, this confusing, inexplicable behaviour,
Kirk said: Is my concern, not yours. You would find me a formidable enemy.
Spock said: I'm aware of that, Captain. I trust that you are aware of the reverse.
Spock and his bodyguard leave.
Farrell said: Orders, sir?
Kirk said: Release Chekov. Confine him to quarters.
Farrell said: Yes, sir.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott distracts the guard outside the door so McCoy can give him a hypo.
Mccoy said: That ought to hold him for about six hours.
(They go to the upper level, and Scott begins his work.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
The room is dark, and a woman is lying on his bed.
Marlena said: I fell asleep. We had quite a time in the chem lab picking up after the storm. Nothing compared to your day, I gather. I heard about Chekov.
Kirk said: He gambled, I won.
Marlena said: You got lucky. I'm surprised you could be caught off-guard that way.
Kirk said: I was preoccupied.
. Marlena said: You're still in trouble with Starfleet Command. What you've got in mind this time is beyond me. You're scheming, of course. The Halkans have something you want, or, is it all some clever means to advance you to the Admiralty? Kirk. The Cabinet itself?
Kirk said: Further than that, if I'm successful.
Marlena said: Really? Well, you must know what you're doing. You always do. If I'm to be the woman of a Caesar, can't I know what you're up to?
Their kiss is interrupted by the intercom.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Scene: Spock's quarters.
Spock said: Mister Spock, Captain.
Kirk said: Yes.
Spock said: I have received a private communication from Starfleet Command. I am committing a breach of regulations by informing you of its contents.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Kirk said: Yes, Mister Spock.
Scene: Spock's quarters.
Spock said: I am instructed to wait until planet dawn over principal target to permit you to carry out our mission.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Kirk said: And if I don't?
Scene: Spock's quarters.
Spock said: In that event, I am ordered to kill you and to proceed against the Halkans as the new captain of the Enterprise.
Captain's log, stardate unknown. We are trapped in a savage, parallel universe from which we must escape within four hours, or I will face a death sentence at Mister Spock's hands.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Marlena said: Let's drink a toast to Spock, The only man aboard with the decency to warn you, and he'll die for it. They'll never find another man like him.
Kirk said: I don't intend to kill him.
Marlena said: Are you going to act against the Halkans before the deadline?
Kirk said: No, but I'll avoid killing Spock.
Marlena said: Just get him out of the way, he and his men.
Kirk said: I'll get out of his way.
Marlena said: Shall I activate the Tantalus field? You'll at least want to monitor him, won't you?
Kirk said: Yes.
She touches a wall panel and it rises to reveal a screen and a collection of buttons.
Marlena said: I hate this thing.
Kirk said: It's not that bad.
Marlena said: Of course not. It made you captain. How many enemies have you simply wiped out of existence by the touch of a button? Fifty? A hundred? Now, I always thought that was funny, The great, powerful Captain Kirk who owes everything to some unknown alien scientist and a plundered laboratory.
Kirk said: Well, if you don't take advantage of your opportunities
Marlena said: You don't rise to the command of a starship or even higher.
She switches it on, and Spock is seen sitting at his table.
Marlena said: That magnificent mind of his. But it can't protect him from this. I press it and he dies. Now?
Kirk switches it off.
Marlena said: You really mean it. It doesn't matter. If Spock fails his order, he'll be killed anyway.
Kirk said: I'll see to it that the circumstances of his failure will clear him.
Marlena said: You're not even afraid of Starfleet Command. Can your scheme bring you that much power so quickly? And what about me? How does Marlena fit in?
Kirk said: How does Marlena want to fit in?
She goes into the other room.
Kirk said: Scotty.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: Scotty here, sir.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Kirk said: We have to get out of here within three hours. Spock has orders to kill me unless I complete the mission.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: We've got another deadline, too, sir.
Kirk said: Explain.
Scott said: The two-way matter transmission affected the local field density between the universes, and it's increasing. We've got to move fast.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Kirk said: How fast?
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: Half hour at the most.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Kirk said: If we miss?
Scott said: We couldn't get out of here in a century. We're ready to bridge power from the engines to the transporter.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: You've got to get down there and free the board so we can lock in. Give me about ten minutes.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Scott said: I've got to complete a few more computations.
Kirk said: All right. I'll be in the transporter room in ten minutes. I'll meet you in Sickbay afterward.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: Aye, sir.
Scene: Spock's quarters.
Spock said: Computer?
Computer said: ready.
Spock said: Explain computer activity in the engineering section.
Computer said: A security research is in progress.
Spock said: Who is conducting the research?
Computer said: The Captain and Mister Scott.
Spock said: What is the nature of the research?
Computer said: Programme is classified under voice index log.
A big red light starts flashing.
Spock said: Why are you monitoring my communications, Mister Sulu?
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: My security board has detected extensive use of computer, Mister Spock. I was about to inform you.
Scene: Spock's quarters.
Sulu said: It's not hard to guess the nature of your order from Starfleet Command. I suggest a connection. The captain suspects.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: He's working on escape or defence.
Scene: Spock's quarters.
Spock said: That is my concern.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Correct. It's your play. I hope you succeed, because the order would fall on me next and you know how Captain Kirk's enemies have a habit of disappearing.
Scene: Spock's quarters.
Spock said: If I am successful, you see yourself a step nearer to the captaincy. I do not want to command the Enterprise, but if it should befall me, I suggest you remember that my operatives would avenge my death and some of them are Vulcans.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Marlena has changed into something more comfortable.
Marlena said: Oiling my traps, darling. I'm afraid I'm a little out of practice. Maybe that's what happened to us? It's very hard for a working officer to shine as a woman every minute, and you demand perfection.
Kirk said: I've never seen perfection, but no woman could come closer to it.
Marlena said: I remember when you used to talk that way.
Kirk said: I still do.
Marlena said: Prove it.
Kirk said: I've got to go.
Marlena said: Ship's business? An important task on the crew deck? Well, I guess it's over. Commander Kenno will take me temporarily. He's made that quite clear. I'll call a yeoman to help me with my things.
Kirk said: You don't have to do that.
Marlena said: Are you feeling sorry for me? Do I see hesitation in your eyes about anything? I want one thing, Captain. Transfer me. On the Enterprise, I am humiliated! On another ship, I can hunt fresh game. I've got my rank, and. Don't I? I've been a captain's woman, and I like it. I'll be one again if I have to go through every officer in the fleet.
Kirk said: You could. (She turns to slap him.) I simply meant that you could be anything you want to be.
They kiss, long and passionate.
Marlena said: It's been a long time since you've kissed me like that. You're a stranger. Mercy to the Halkans, mercy to Spock, to me. Am I your woman?
Kirk said: You're the Captain's woman until he says you're not.
She turns on the Tantalus machine and watches him go into a turbolift.
Scene: Turbolift.
Kirk said: Uhura?;
Uhura said: Yes, Captain.
Kirk said: Scotty's signal should be coming through any moment. You know what to do.
Uhura said: I've got a pretty good idea, sir.
Kirk said: Keep Sulu's attention off that board.
Uhura said: I'll do my best, sir.
Kirk said: Good luck. Kirk out.
Scott is up a Jefferies tube. He signals Uhura.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: You aren't very persistent, Mister Sulu. The game has rules. You're ignoring them. I protest and you come back. You didn't come back.
Sulu said: (wrapping his arms around her naked waist) Now you're making sense.
Uhura said: I was getting bored. Of course this isn't the time.
The board beeps.
Sulu said: Any time's a good time.
She slaps him, hard.
Uhura said: I'm afraid I changed my mind. Again.
Sulu said: You take a lot of chances, Lieutenant.
Uhura said: (drawing her dagger) So do you, Mister. So do you. Take over for me.
She goes into the turbolift, and guards block Sulu's way.
Scene: Turbolift.
Uhura said: Mister Scott, all clear. On my way to Sickbay.
Scene: Jefferies tube.
Mccoy said: Now it's up to the captain.
Scene: Transporter room.
Spock said: Please restrict your movements, Captain.
Kirk said: What are you doing? Are you going to shoot me now, Spock? I thought I had until dawn.
Spock said: I shall make that decision. Since your return from the planet, you've behaved in a most atypical and illogical manner. I want to know why.
Kirk said: Shoot. You're wasting time.
Spock said: I shall not waste time with you. You're too inflexible, too disciplined once you've made up your mind. But Doctor McCoy has a plenitude of human weaknesses, sentimental, soft. You may not tell me what I want to know, but he will.
Kirk said: You're running a big risk, Spock.
Spock said: I have the phaser, Captain, and I do not intend to simply disappear as so many of your opponents have in the past. If you please. Sickbay.
Scene: Sickbay.
Spock said: Yes, of course. The entire landing party. Captain, stand over there. Doctor, it is time for answers.
Kirk knocks the phaser out of Spock's hand, and he and Scott try to fight him. Even Uhura gets pushed around. Finally, she hands Kirk a skull and he smashes it over Spock's head. He falls, unconscious.
Kirk said: How much time, Scotty?
Scott said: Hardly fifteen minutes, sir. The field density between the two universes is starting to close very fast.
Mccoy said: Help me get him on the table. Well, come on. Help me get him on the table. He'll die without immediate treatment.
Kirk said: Everything laid in, Scotty? The time lag so the operator can get into the transporter chamber?
Scott said: All laid in, sir. Come on, McCoy! We're taking a chance of not getting back home.
Mccoy said: We'll get home. This won't take long.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
{Marlena is still watching on the Tantalus screen.)
Scott said: Fourteen minutes. We've got to go!
Mccoy said: Shut up? I can save his life.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: Do you want me to stop, Jim? It'll only take a minute.
Kirk said: He is very much like our own Mister Spock, isn't he? You've got that minute.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Mccoy said: A little time, he'll live.
Scene: Sickbay.
Sulu and three henchmen march in.
Kirk said: What is this, Mister Sulu?
Sulu said: Mister Spock has orders to kill you, Captain. He will succeed, apparently. You will also appear to have killed him after a fierce battle. Regrettable, but it will leave me in command.
Then one of the henchmen disappears, and another. Marlena presses the button again and Sulu is alone. Kirk disarms and knocks him out easily.
Scott said: Captain, we've barely got ten minutes.
Kirk said: Let's go, Bones.
Mccoy said: I can't let him die, Jim. You get on to the transporter room. I'll be there in five minutes.
Kirk said: No longer.
Mccoy said: I guarantee it. Now, go on, please.
Kirk, Scott and Uhura leave. McCoy gives Spock an injection.
Spock said: (sitting up and grabbing McCoy's arm) Why did the captain let me live?
He pushes him against the wall and does a mind meld.
Spock said: Our minds are merging, Doctor. Our minds are one. I feel what you feel. I know what you know.
Scene: Transporter room.
Marlena is waiting for them.
Kirk said: A friend. Activate the transporter. You saved us back at Sickbay with the Tantalus field.
Marlena said: Take me with you.
Kirk said: I can't. I'm sorry. Our power is balanced for four. There's no guarantee that we'll make it with five. All could die. Scotty?
Scott said: It's working, sir.
Marlena said: But there are only three of you.
Kirk said: One is coming. I'd help you if I could, Marlena. Believe that.
She raises her phaser.
Kirk said: If you kill us, you'll still stay.
Uhura disarms Marlena.
Kirk said: Where's McCoy? Time, Scotty.
Scott said: Five minutes, sir.
Marlena said: Do you know what they'll do to me?
Scott said: The power's cut, sir. They're on to us.
Kirk said: Auxiliary.
Scott said: Aye, it's available.
Kirk said: Can you bridge to your setup?
Scott said: I can get us the power, but the automatic setting is linked to the transporter main. If we bypass, that means that someone has got to operate the controls manually.
Kirk said: One of us will have to stay.
Scott said: I'll stay, Captain.
Kirk said: Get to the transporter chamber. You, too, Uhura.
Scott said: Jim.
Kirk said: That's an order, Scotty.
Scott said: Aye, Captain.
Marlena said: What about me?
Kirk said: McCoy.
Spock enters with McCoy.
Spock said: I cut the transporter power. It was necessary to delay your beam-out until I could arrive. Take him.
Scott guides McCoy to the transporter pad.
Spock said: Engineering, re-activate main transporter circuits.
Kirk said: You're a man of integrity in both universes, Mister Spock.
Spock said: You must return to your universe. I must have my captain back. I shall operate the transporter. You have two minutes and ten seconds.
Kirk said: In that time I have something to say. How long before the Halkan prediction of galactic revolt is realised?
Spock said: Approximately two hundred and forty years.
Kirk said: The inevitable outcome?
Spock said: The Empire shall be overthrown, of course.
Kirk said: The illogic of waste, Mister Spock. The waste of lives, potential, resources, time. I submit to you that your Empire is illogical because it cannot endure. I submit that you are illogical to be a willing part of it.
Spock said: You have one minute and twenty three seconds.
Kirk said: If change is inevitable, predictable, beneficial, doesn't logic demand that you be a part of it?
Spock said: One man cannot summon the future.
Kirk said: But one man can change the present. Be the captain of this Enterprise, Mister Spock. Find a logical reason for sparing the Halkans and make it stick. Push till it gives. You can defend yourself better than any man in the fleet.
Scott said: Captain, get in the chamber!
Kirk said: What about it, Spock?
Spock said: A man must also have the power.
Kirk said: In my cabin is a device that will make you invincible.
Spock said: Indeed?
Kirk said: What will it be? Past or future? Tyranny or freedom? It's up to you.
Spock said: It is time.
Kirk said: In every revolution, there's one man with a vision.
Spock said: Captain Kirk, I shall consider it.
He beams them away.
Scene: Transporter room.
Back on the 'proper' Enterprise, in the right uniforms.
Kirk said: Spock.
Spock said: Welcome home, Captain.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: What I don't understand is how were you able to identify our counterparts so quickly?
Spock said: It was far easier for you as civilised men to behave like barbarians, than it was for them to behave like civilised men. I assume they returned to their Enterprise at the same time you appeared here.
Kirk said: Probably. However, that Jim Kirk will find a few changes, if I read my Spocks correctly.
Mccoy said: Jim, I think I liked him with a beard better. It gave him character. Of course almost any change would be a distinct improvement.
Kirk said: What worries me is the easy way his counterpart fitted into that other universe. I always thought Spock was a bit of a pirate at heart.
Spock said: Indeed, gentlemen. May I point out that I had an opportunity to observe your counterparts here quite closely. They were brutal, savage, unprincipled, uncivilised, treacherous, In every way, splendid examples of homo sapiens, the very flower of humanity. I found them quite refreshing.
Kirk said: I'm not sure, but I think we've been insulted.
Mccoy said: I'm sure.
A women steps out of the turbolift.
Marlena said: Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Lieutenant, er, Lieutenant?
Marlena said: Marlena Moreau. I was just assigned last week.
Kirk said: All right, Lieutenant. Carry on.
Spock said: You've met her before, Captain?
Kirk said: Uh, why do you ask?
Spock said: Your reaction, One of recognition.
Kirk said: Oh, no. No, no. We haven't met before, exactly. She just seemed a nice, likable girl. I think we could become friends. It's possible.
And to prove it, he leaves his chair and goes over to stand next to her.