The Corbomite Maneuver
Stardate: 1512.2
Original Airdate: 10 Nov, 1966
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: One degree to overlap. Stand by to photograph. Now.
Bailey said: Three days of this now, sir. Other ships must have made star maps of some of this.
Spock said: Negative, Lieutenant. We are the first to reach this far.
Sulu said: Sir, contact with an object. It's moving toward us. No visual contact yet.
Spock said: Deflectors, full intensity.
Sulu said: It's coming at light speed.
Bailey said: Collision course.
Spock said: Evasive maneuvers, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Object changing direction, too, sir. Keeps coming at us.
Uhura said: I'm getting no signal from it, sir.
Bailey said: Still collision course. Deflectors aren't stopping it.
Spock said: Sound alarm.
Sulu said: It's slowing down, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Countermand alarm. All engines full stop.
Bailey said: Visual contact.
Spock said: Ahead slow. Steer a course around it, Mister Sulu.
Bailey said: It's blocking the way!
Spock said: Quite unnecessary to raise your voice, Mister Bailey. All engines stop. Sound the alert.
Sulu said: Bridge to all decks. Condition alert. All decks, condition alert. Captain Kirk to the Bridge.
Captain's Log, star date 1512.2. On our third day of star mapping, an unexplained cubical object blocked our vessel's path. On the Bridge, Mister Spock immediately ordered general alert. My location, Sickbay. Quarterly physical check.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: Just a few seconds more.
Kirk said: (on back, pumping pedals) Just a few seconds more.
Mccoy said: That's a boy. Keep it up. Work up a little sweat, it'll will do you good. (notices red alert)
Kirk said: You're killing me. You're killing me.
Mccoy said: Stop. Winded?
Kirk said: You'd be the last one I'd tell. (sees light, goes to desk monitor) Kirk here. What's going on?
Spock said: Have a look at this, Captain.
Kirk said: What's that?
Spock said: Undetermined. Whatever it is, it's blocking our way. When we move, it moves as well.
Kirk said: A vessel of some kind?
Spock said: Negative. More some type of device.
Kirk said: I'll be right up. You could see the alarm lights flashing from there, McCoy. Why didn't you tell me?
Mccoy said: Finally finished a physical on you, didn't I. (Kirk leaves) What am I, a doctor or a moon shuttle conductor? If I jumped every time a light came on around here, I'd end up talking to myself.
Scene: Corridor.
Sulu said: All decks alert. All decks alert.
Scene: Turbolift.
Kirk said: Bridge. Captain to Bridge.
Spock said: Spock here.
Kirk said: Any changes?
Spock said: Negative. Whatever it is, it seems to just want to hold us here.
Kirk said: Any indication of danger from it?
Spock said: Negative.
Kirk said: I'll change first then. Captain out.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: All decks have reported green, Mister Bailey.
Bailey said: Yes, sir.
Spock said: And when the Captain arrives he will expect a full report on
Bailey said: The cube's range and position. I'll have it by then. Raising my voice back there doesn't mean I was scared or couldn't do my job. It means I happen to have a human thing called an adrenaline gland.
Spock said: It does sound most inconvenient, however. Have you considered having it removed?
Bailey said: Very funny.
Sulu said: You try to cross brains with Spock, he'll cut you to pieces every time.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Kirk said: Captain to Bridge.
Spock said: Spock here.
Kirk said: Any signs of life?
Spock said: Negative.
Kirk said: Have you tried all hailing frequencies?
Spock said: Affirmative. No answer from the cube.
Kirk said: Have the department heads meet me on the Bridge.
Spock said: Already standing by.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Reporting, sir. Sensors show it is solid, but its composition is unknown to us.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura.
Uhura said: Hailing frequencies still open, sir. I get no message from it.
Kirk said: Navigation.
Bailey said: Distance from us, fifteen hundred ninety three metres, position constant.
Sulu said: Each of its edges measures one hundred seven metres. Mass, a little under eleven thousand metric tons.
Kirk said: Scotty.
Scott said: Motive power? Beats me what makes it go.
Kirk said: I'll buy speculation.
Scott said: I'd sell it if I had any. That's a solid cube. How something like that can sense us coming, block us, move when we move, well it beats me. That's my report.
Kirk said: Life sciences.
Mccoy said: Same report.
Bailey said: Sir, we going to just let it hold us here? We've got phaser weapons. I vote we blast it.
Kirk said: I'll keep that in mind, Mister Bailey, when this becomes a democracy.
Captain's Log, star date 1513.8. Star maps reveal no indication of habitable planets nearby. Origin and purpose of the cube still unknown. We've been here, held motionless, for eighteen hours.
Scene: Briefing room.
Kirk said: Anything further, gentlemen?
Spock said: I believe it adds up to either one of two possibilities. First, a space buoy of some kind.
Kirk said: Second?
Spock said: Flypaper.
Kirk said: And you don't recommend sticking around.
Spock said: Negative. It would make us appear too weak.
Kirk said: It's time for action, gentlemen. Mister Bailey
Bailey said: Bridge to Phaser Gun Crew
Kirk said: Countermand. I'll select what kind of action.
Bailey said: I'm sorry, sir. I thought you meant
Kirk said: Are you explaining Mister Bailey? I haven't requested an explanation. Now, as I was about to say, Navigator, plot us a spiral course away from the cube.
Bailey said: Yes, sir. We'll try pulling away from it.
Sulu said: Yes, sir. Helmsman to Engine Room, stand by. All decks alert. We're going to try pulling away.
Scene: Bridge.
Bailey said: Course plotted and laid in, sir.
Kirk said: Engage, Mister Sulu. Quarter speed.
Sulu said: Point two five, sir. Still blocking us, sir.
Kirk said: Let's see if it'll give way. Ahead half speed.
Sulu said: Point five oh, sir.
Spock said: Radiation from the short end of the spectrum increasing.
Kirk said: All stop. Hold position.
Bailey said: It's still coming toward us. Range, one hundred ninety metres.
Spock said: Radiation increasing.
Kirk said: Power astern, half speed.
Sulu said: Half speed.
Spock said: Radiation nearing the tolerance level.
Bailey said: Still coming, gaining on us.
Kirk said: Engines astern, full speed.
Sulu said: Full speed.
Bailey said: Range one hundred twenty five metres now.
Kirk said: Helm, give us warp speed.
Sulu said: Warp one, sir.
Spock said: Radiation at the tolerance level.
Sulu said: Warp two, sir. Speed is now warp three.
Spock said: Radiation passing the tolerance level, entering lethal zone.
Bailey said: Range fifty one metres and still closing, sir.
Kirk said: Phaser Crew stand ready.
Bailey said: Phaser Crew reports ready, sir.
Spock said: Growing. We can take only a few more seconds of this.
Kirk said: Lock phasers on target. Mister Bailey, lock phasers.
Bailey said: Phasers locked on target, sir. At point-blank range and closing.
Kirk said: Fire main phasers.
Captain's Log, star date 1514.0. The cube has been destroyed. Ship's damage minor but my next decision, major. Probe on ahead or turn back.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Nothing, Captain. No contacts, no objects in any direction.
Kirk said: Care to speculate on what we'll find if we go on ahead?
Spock said: Speculate? No. Logically, we'll discover the intelligence which sent out the cube.
Kirk said: Intelligence different from ours or superior?
Spock said: Probably both, and if you're asking the logical decision to make
Kirk said: No, I'm not. The mission of the Enterprise is to seek out and contact alien life.
Spock said: Has it occurred to you that there's a certain inefficiency in constantly questioning me on things you've already made up your mind about?
Kirk said: It gives me emotional security. Navigator, set a course ahead.
Bailey said: Plotted. Laid in, sir.
Kirk said: Engage.
Bailey said: Warp one, sir.
Kirk said: Mister Bailey, phaser crews were sluggish. You were slow in locking them into your directional beam. Helmsman, engineering decks could have been faster, too. Programme a series of simulated attacks and evasion maneuvers. Keep repeating the exercise until we're proficient, gentlemen.
Sulu said: Yes, sir.
Bailey said: Yes, sir.
Mccoy said: Your timing is lousy, Jim.
Scene: Turbolift.
Mccoy said: Your men are tired.
Kirk said: Captain's quarters. Aren't you the one who always says a little suffering is good for the soul?
Mccoy said: I never say that.
Bailey said: This is the Bridge. Prepare for simulated attack.
Mccoy said: I'm especially worried about Bailey. Navigator's position's rough enough for a seasoned man.
Kirk said: I think he'll cut it.
Mccoy said: Oh? How so sure? Because you spotted something you liked in him, something familiar, like yourself say about, oh, eleven years ago?
Bailey said: On the double, deck five! Give me a green light.
Kirk said: Why, Doctor, you've been reading your textbooks again?
Mccoy said: I don't need textbooks to know you could've promoted him too fast. Listen to that voice.
Bailey said: Condition alert. Battle stations.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Bailey said: Engineering, deck five, report. Phaser crews, come on, let's get with it. Phaser station two, where's your green light?
Kirk said: What's next? They're not machines, Jim?
Mccoy said: Well, they're not. After what they've been through they really should
Kirk said: Doctor McCoy, I've heard you say that man is ultimately superior to any mechanical device.
Mccoy said: No, I never say that, either.
Kirk said: I could've sworn I heard you say that. Kirk here.
Spock said: Exercise rating, Captain. Ninety four percent.
Kirk said: Let's try for one hundred, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Agreed.
Mccoy said: What are you going to do with that six percent when they give it to you, Jim?
Kirk said: I'm going to take it, and I'm going to (door opens)
Rand said: Excuse me, sir. It's past time you had something to eat, sir.
Kirk said: What the devil is this? Green leaves?
Rand said: It's dietary salad, sir. Doctor McCoy ordered your diet card changed. I thought you knew.
Mccoy said: Your weight was up a couple of pounds, remember?
Kirk said: Will you stop hovering over me, Yeoman?
Rand said: Well, I'll change it if you don't like it, sir.
Kirk said: Bring some for the doctor, too.
Mccoy said: No, no. No, I never eat until the crew eats.
Kirk said: Thank you, Yeoman.
Rand said: You're welcome, sir. (leaves)
Bailey said: This is the Bridge. All decks prepare to better reaction time on second simulated attack.
Kirk said: When I find the headquarters genius that assigned me a female yeoman
Mccoy said: What's the matter, Jim. Don't you trust yourself?
Kirk said: I've already got a female to worry about. Her name's the Enterprise.
Bailey said: Engineering decks alert. Phaser crews, let's
SULU [OC] Countermand that. All decks to battle stations. This is not a drill. Repeat, this is not a drill.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Spock said: We're picking up an object, sir. Much larger, coming toward us.
Kirk said: Coming.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Exceptionally strong contact. Not visual yet. Distant spectrograph. Metallic, similar to cube. Much greater energy reading.
Sulu said: There, sir.
Kirk said: Half speed. Prepare for evasive action.
Sulu said: Reducing to warp two, sir.
Spock said: Tractor beam, Captain. Something's grabbed us, hard.
Sulu said: Engines overloading, sir.
Kirk said: All engines stop.
Sulu said: All engines stopped, sir.
Kirk said: Phaser crews stand ready.
Bailey said: Bridge to phaser crews, stand ready.
Crewman said: Forward phaser, will comply. All weapons at operational ready.
Spock said: Fascinating.
Kirk said: What's its mass, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Reading goes off my scale, Captain. Must be a mile in diameter.
Bailey said: Over five thousand metres away, and it still fills the screen.
Kirk said: Reduce image. Let me see all of it.
Sulu said: Magnification two five, sir. Magnification one eight point five, sir.
Kirk said: Ship to ship.
Uhura said: Hailing frequencies open, sir.
Kirk said: This is the United Earth ship Enterprise. We convey greetings and await your reply. What is it, Mister Bailey?
Bailey said: A message coming over my navigation beam.
Kirk said: Pick it up.
Uhura said: Switching, sir.
Balok said: And trespassed into our star systems. This is Balok, Commander of the flagship Fesarius of the First Federation. Your vessel, obviously the product of a primitive and savage civilisation, having ignored a warning buoy and having then destroyed it, has demonstrated your intention is not peaceful. We are now considering the disposition of your ship and the life aboard.
Kirk said: Ship to ship.
Uhura said: Hailing frequencies open, sir.
Kirk said: This is the Captain of the Enterprise speaking. The warning nature of your space buoy was unknown to us. Our vessel was blocked. When we attempted to disengage
Spock said: Captain, we're being invaded by exceptionally strong sensor probes everywhere. Our electrical systems, our engines.
Balok said: No further communication will be accepted. If there is the slightest hostile move, your vessel will be destroyed immediately.
Spock said: They're shutting off some of our systems, Captain. Brilliant. Extremely sophisticated in their methods.
Kirk said: Does the recorder marker have this on its tapes?
Spock said: Enough to warn other Earth ships.
Kirk said: Mister Bailey, dispatch recorder marker. Mister Bailey?
Bailey said: Recorder marker dispatched, sir.
Spock said: Marker on course. Heading back the way we (big bang)
Balok said: Your recorder marker has been destroyed. You have been examined. Your ship must be destroyed. We make assumption you have a deity or deities or some such beliefs which comfort you. We therefore grant you ten Earth time periods known as minutes to make preparations.
Spock said: Might be interesting to see what they look like if I can locate where that voice is coming from. (McCoy and Scott enter)
Mccoy said: Balok's message. It was heard all over the ship.
Kirk said: Captain to crew. Those of you who have served for long on this vessel have encountered alien lifeforms. You know the greatest danger facing us is ourselves, an irrational fear of the unknown. But there's no such thing as the unknown, only things temporarily hidden, temporarily not understood. In most cases we have found that intelligence capable of a civilisation is capable of understanding peaceful gestures. Surely a lifeform advanced enough for space travel is advanced enough to eventually understand our motives. All decks stand by. Captain out. Ship to ship.
Uhura said: Hailing frequencies open, sir.
Kirk said: This is the Captain of the USS Enterprise. We came seeking friendship but we have no wish to trespass. To demonstrate our goodwill, our vessel will now return the way it came. We (humming noise) Lay in a course ahead, Mister Bailey.
Bailey said: What? A course?
Sulu said: Plotted and laid in, sir.
Kirk said: Engage, warp factor one.
Sulu said: Warp factor. There's no response.
Kirk said: Switch to impulse.
Sulu said: All engine systems show dead, and weapon systems.
Spock said: Switching to screen. I believe I can get something visual.
Balok said: You are wasting time and effort. There is no escape. You have eight Earth minutes left.
Spock said: I was curious to see how they appeared.
Kirk said: Yes, of course you were.
Bailey said: I don't understand this. Spock's wasting time. Everybody else just sitting around. Somebody's got to do something.
Mccoy said: Easy, Bailey.
Bailey said: What do they want from us? Let's find out what they want us to do.
Kirk said: They want us to lose our heads.
Bailey said: We've only got eight minutes left.
Sulu said: Seven minutes and forty five seconds.
Bailey said: He's doing a countdown!
Mccoy said: Practically end of watch.
Bailey said: What, are you all out of your minds? End of watch? It's the end of everything. What are you, robots? Wound-up toy soldiers? Don't you know when you're dying? Watch and regulations and orders What do they mean?
Kirk said: Bailey, you're relieved! Escort him to his quarters, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Let's go. (McCoy and Bailey leave)
Kirk said: Ship to ship.
Uhura said: Hailing frequencies open, sir.
Kirk said: This is the Captain of the Enterprise speaking. It is the custom of Earth people to try and avoid misunderstanding whenever possible. We destroyed your space buoy as a simple act of self-preservation. When we attempted to move away from it, it emitted radiation harmful to our species. If you've examined our ship and its tapes, you know this to be true. (humming noise)
Balok said: You now have seven minutes left.
Sulu said: Four minutes, thirty seconds.
Scott said: You have an annoying fascination for timepieces, Mister Sulu.
Spock said: Jim.
Balok said: Four minutes.
Kirk said: What's the matter with them out there? They must know we mean them no harm.
Spock said: They're certainly aware by now that we're totally incapable of it.
Kirk said: There must be something to do, something I've overlooked.
Spock said: In chess, when one is outmatched, the game is over. Checkmate.
Kirk said: Is that your best recommendation?
Spock said: I'm s, I regret that I can find no other logical alternative.
Mccoy said: Assuming we get out of this, Captain
Kirk said: Nobody's given up yet.
Mccoy said: Well, then about Bailey. Let me enter it in my medical records as simple fatigue.
Kirk said: That's my decision, Doctor.
Mccoy said: And your mistake. You overworked him, pushed him, expected too much from him.
Kirk said: I'm ordering you to drop it. I have no time for you, your theories, your quaint philosophies.
Mccoy said: I intend to challenge your actions in my records. I'll state that I warned you about Bailey's condition. Now that's no bluff.
Kirk said: Any time you can bluff me, Doctor.
Balok said: Three minutes.
Kirk said: All right, Doctor. Let's hope we have time to argue about it. Not chess, Mister Spock, poker. Do you know the game? Ship to ship.
Uhura said: Hailing frequencies open, sir.
Kirk said: This is the Captain of the Enterprise. Our respect for other lifeforms requires that we give you this warning. One critical item of information that has never been incorporated into the memory banks of any Earth ship. Since the early years of space exploration, Earth vessels have had incorporated into them a substance known as corbomite. It is a material and a device which prevents attack on us. If any destructive energy touches our vessel, a reverse reaction of equal strength is created, destroying
Balok said: You now have two minutes.
Kirk said: Destroying the attacker! It may interest you to know that since the initial use of corbomite more than two of our centuries ago, no attacking vessel has survived the attempt. Death has little meaning to us. If it has none to you then attack us now. We grow annoyed at your foolishness.
Spock said: However, it was well played. I regret not having learned more about this Balok. In some manner he was reminiscent of my father.
Scott said: Then may heaven have helped your mother.
Spock said: Quite the contrary. She considered herself a very fortunate Earth woman.
Kirk said: Doc. Sorry.
Mccoy said: For having other things on your mind? My fault. I don't how the devil you keep from punching me in the face.
Sulu said: One minute. I knew he would. (Bailey enters) If anyone's interested, thirty seconds.
Bailey said: Request permission to return to post, sir.
Kirk said: Permission granted.
Sulu said: Eleven, ten seconds, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one.
Spock said: A very interesting game, this poker.
Kirk said: It does have advantages over chess.
Mccoy said: Love to teach it to you.
Balok said: This is the Commander of the Fesarius.
Kirk said: Here it comes. Is it raise or call?
Balok said: The destruction of your vessel has been delayed. We will relent in your destruction only if we have proof of your corbomite device.
Kirk said: Hold on that. Let him sweat for a change. Ship to ship.
Uhura said: Hailing frequencies, sir.
Kirk said: Request denied.
Spock said: I have visual contact, Captain.
Balok said: We will soon inform you of our decision regarding your vessel. And having permitted your primitive efforts to see my form, I trust it has pleased your curiosity. And now, another demonstration of our superiority.
Mccoy said: I thought the power was off in the galley.
Rand said: I used a hand phaser, and zap. Hot coffee.
Sulu said: Something's going on, Captain. (something leaves the Fesarius)
Kirk said: It's a small ship.
Spock said: About two thousand metric tons.
Balok said: It has been decided that I will conduct you to a planet of the First Federation which is capable of sustaining your lifeform. There you will disembark and be interned. Your ship will be destroyed, of course.
Spock said: Engine systems coming on, Captain.
Balok said: Do not be deceived by the size of this pilot vessel. It has an equal potential to destroy your vessel.
Spock said: Tractor beam again.
Balok said: So that you may sustain your gravity and atmosphere, your systems are now open. Escape is impossible since you are being taken under our power to your destination. Any move to escape or destroy this ship will result in the instant destruction of the Enterprise and everyone aboard.
Sulu said: We're being towed, sir.
Captain's Log, star date 1514.1. The Enterprise is in tow. To this point, no resistance has been offered. My plan? A show of resignation. Balok's tractor beam has to be a heavy drain of power on his small ship. Question. Will he grow careless?
Scene: Bridge.
Bailey said: Captain, he's pulling out a little ahead of us.
Spock said: He's sneaked power down a bit.
Sulu said: Our speed is down to point six four of light.
Kirk said: I want a right angled course. Shear away from him no matter which way he turns.
Bailey said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Maximum acceleration when I give the word.
Sulu said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Engage.
Sulu said: It's a strain, Captain. Engines are overloading.
Kirk said: More power.
Spock said: We're superheating. Intermix temperature, seven thousand four hundred degrees. Seven five, seven six, eight thousand degrees. (everything is juddering, the little ship is getting brighter and brighter)
Kirk said: Shear away, Mister Bailey.
Spock said: Two thousand degrees above maximum. Eight four, eight five, eight six. She'll blow soon!
Kirk said: Now, Mister Sulu. Impulse power two.
Bailey said: We're breaking free, sir.
Kirk said: All engines stop.
Sulu said: All engines stopped, sir.
Scott said: Engines need work badly, Captain. Can you hold it here a few hours?
Spock said: That may not be wise. He got a signal through to the mother ship.
Kirk said: Then we're not home yet.
Uhura said: A signal, Captain. It's very weak. It's Balok. It's a distress signal to the Fesarius. His engines are out. His life-sustaining system isn't operating. The message is repeating, sir.
Kirk said: Any reply?
Uhura said: Negative, sir. The signal is growing weak. Sir, I doubt if the mother ship could have heard it.
Kirk said: Plot a course for it, Mister Bailey.
Spock said: For it, Captain?
Kirk said: Dead ahead. This is the Captain speaking. First Federation vessel is in distress. We're preparing to board it. There are lives at stake. By our standards, alien life but lives nevertheless. Captain out.
Bailey said: Course plotted and laid in, sir.
Kirk said: Mister Scott, ready the transporter room.
Scott said: Aye, sir. (leaves)
Kirk said: Mister Sulu, bring us to within one hundred metres. Ahead slow.
Sulu said: Ahead slow, sir.
Mccoy said: Jim, don't you think
Kirk said: What's the mission of this vessel, Doctor? To seek out and contact alien life, and an opportunity to demonstrate what our high-sounding words mean. Any questions? I'll take two men with me. Doctor McCoy to examine and treat the aliens if necessary, and you, Mister Bailey.
Bailey said: Sir?
Kirk said: The face of the unknown. I think I owe you a look at it.
Bailey said: Yes, sir.
Spock said: Captain, request permission to
Kirk said: Denied. If I'm wrong, if it's a trap, I want you here.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: Transporter ready?
Scott said: Well, yes, sir, but it's risky. We're locked on what appears to be a main deck.
Kirk said: Air sample?
Scott said: Breathable. In fact, a slightly higher oxygen content than our own. Communicator, phaser weapon.
Kirk said: Thank you, Scotty. Ready, Doctor?
Mccoy said: No, but you won't let that stop you.
Scott said: Bend low, gentlemen. It reads pretty cramped over there. Ready to transport.
Kirk said: Energise.
Scene: Balok's ship.
Kirk said: It's a dummy. A puppet of some kind.
Balok said: I'm Balok. Welcome aboard. (curtain opens to reveal a small humanoid with big grin)
Kirk said: I'm Captain Kirk.
Balok said: And McCoy and Bailey. Sit. Be comfortable. Go ahead, be seated. We must drink. This is tranya. I hope you relish it as much as I.
Kirk said: Commander Balok.
Balok said: I know, I know, a thousand questions. But first, the tranya. Gentlemen. (drinks) Ahh.
Kirk said: Commander, that puppet.
Balok said: My alter ego, so to speak. In your culture, he would be Mister Hyde to my Jekyll. You must admit he's effective. You would never have been frightened by me. And I thought my distress signal quite clever. It was a pleasure testing you.
Bailey said: Testing us?
Kirk said: I see.
Balok said: I had to discover your real intentions.
Kirk said: But you probed our memory banks.
Balok said: Your records could have been a deception on your part.
Mccoy said: And your crew?
Balok said: I have no crew, Doctor. I run everything, this entire complex, from this small ship. But I miss company, conversation. Even an alien would be welcome. Perhaps one of your men for some period of time. An exchange of information, cultures.
Kirk said: Yes. Both our cultures would benefit. Do you know where we can find a volunteer, Mister Bailey?
Bailey said: Me, sir. I'd like to volunteer.
Balok said: Ah. You represent Earth's best, then.
Bailey said: No, sir, I'm not. I'll make plenty of mistakes.
Kirk said: But you'd find out more about us that way, and I'd get a better officer in return.
Balok said: (laughs) I see. We think much alike, Captain, you and I. Now, before I bring back the Fesarius, let me show you my vessel. It is not often I have this pleasure. Yes, we're very much alike, Captain. Both proud of our ships.