The Immunity Syndrome
Stardate: 4307.1
Original Airdate: 19 Jan, 1968
Captain's log, stardate 4307.1. Approaching Starbase Six for a much needed period of rest and recreation.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: The crew has performed excellently, but is exhausted. And I, too, am looking forward to a nice period of rest on some lovely planet.
Uhura said: Captain. There was a message from Starbase Six. Heavy interference. All I get is Intrepid and what sounded like a sector co-ordinate.
Spock said: Interesting. No indications of magnetic storms in this sector.
Kirk said: Try another channel, Lieutenant.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Mccoy said: The Intrepid is manned by Vulcans, isn't it?
Kirk said: Yes, that's right, Bones.
Uhura said: Enterprise calling Starbase Six. Enterprise calling Starbase Six. Come in. Come in.
Spock suddenly jerks upright, his face a picture of horror.
Kirk said: Spock?
Mccoy said: What is it, Spock? Are you in pain?
Spock said: Captain, the Intrepid. It just died. And the four hundred Vulcans aboard, all dead.
Mccoy said: Come on, Spock, let's go down to Sickbay.
Spock said: Doctor, I know what I know.
Kirk said: Get to the Sickbay.
Spock said: Captain.
Kirk said: No, no, no. That's an order.
Spock said: Yes, sir.
McCoy leads him away.
Uhura said: Captain, I have Starbase Six readable now. Switching to audio, sir.
Kirk said: Kirk here. Go ahead.
Starbase said: You will divert immediately to sector three nine J.
Kirk said: Sir, the Enterprise just completed an exhausting mission. We're on our way in for R and R. There must be another starship in that sector.
Starbase said: Negative. This is a rescue priority. We've lost all contact with solar system Gamma Seven-A, which the Intrepid was investigating. And we've just lost contact with the Intrepid. Report progress.
Kirk said: Order acknowledged. Kirk out. Mister Kyle, you heard the order. Set course for Gamma Seven-A, warp five.
Kyle said: Aye, sir.
Chekov said: Captain I have just completed a full long-range scan of Gamma Seven-A system. It is dead.
Kirk said: Dead? It's a fourth magnitude sun. There are billions of inhabitants there.
Chekov said: It is dead.
Scene: Sickbay.
Spock is on a biobed, being scanned.
Spock said: I assure you, Doctor, I am quite all right. The pain was momentary. It passed quickly.
Mccoy said: All of my instruments seem to agree with you if I can trust these crazy Vulcan readings. Spock, how can you be so sure the lntrepid was destroyed?
Spock gets off the bed.
Spock said: I sensed it die.
Mccoy said: But I thought you had to be in physical contact with a subject before
Spock said: Doctor, even I, a half-Vulcan, could hear the death scream of four hundred Vulcan minds crying out over the distance between us.
Mccoy said: Not even a Vulcan could feel a starship die.
Spock said: Call it a deep understanding of the way things happen to Vulcans, but I know not a person, not even the computers on board the Intrepid, knew what was killing them or would have understood it had they known.
Mccoy said: But four hundred Vulcans?
Spock said: I've noticed that about your people, Doctor. You find it easier to understand the death of one than the death of a million. You speak about the objective hardness of the Vulcan heart, yet how little room there seems to be in yours.
Mccoy said: Suffer the death of thy neighbour, eh, Spock? You wouldn't wish that on us, would you?
Spock said: It might have rendered your history a bit less bloody.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Spock, you may have been right. We've lost contact with the Intrepid and we're out of communication with an entire solar system. Any update from Starfleet?
Uhura said: I cannot filter out the distortion, sir. It's getting worse.
Kyle said: Captain, deflector shields just snapped on.
Kirk said: Slow to warp three.
Kyle said: Warp three, sir.
Spock said: Indications of energy turbulence ahead. Unable to analyse. I've never encountered readings like this before.
Kirk said: Scanners on. Magnification three on the screen.
Kyle said: Magnification factor three, sir.
Uhura said: Exactly what are we looking for, Mister Spock?
Spock said: I would assume that.
In the middle of the viewscreen is a black blob.
Kirk said: What is that?
Chekov said: Perhaps an interstellar dust cloud.
Spock said: Not very likely, Ensign.
Kirk said: No. You'd be able to see stars through a dust cloud. Looks like a hole in space. Readings, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Still not able to analyse, Captain. Sensors are feeding data to the computers now. Whatever this dark zone is, it lies directly in line with the course I calculate for the Intrepid and the Gamma Seven-A system.
Kirk said: Hold present course. Slow to warp one.
Kyle said: Warp factor one, sir.
Kirk said: Mister Chekov, prepare to launch a telemetry probe into that zone. Direct computer feed to Mister Spock.
Chekov said: Aye, sir. Probe ready. Switching data feed to library computer.
Kirk said: Launch probe.
Chekov said: Probe launched, sir.
A high pitched sound comes over the speakers.
Kirk said: What was that?
Uhura said: The telemetry probe, sir. There's no signal from it.
Kirk said: Speculation, Spock.
Spock said: I have none, Captain. Insufficient data.
Chekov is still groaning and Uhura looses her balance.
Spock said: Lieutenant.
Uhura said: I'm just dizzy. I'll be all right. I'm fine, sir.
Mccoy said: Sickbay to Captain Kirk. McCoy here.
Kirk said: Kirk here. What is it?
Mccoy said: I'm getting reports from every deck. Half the people on this ship just fainted.
Kirk said: Uhura almost did. She says she's all right. Do you want to see her?
Mccoy said: Not unless she's feeling ill. I've got an emergency here.
Scene: Sickbay.
Kirk said: What's wrong?
Crew are queued out of the door, getting shots from Chapel.
Mccoy said: There's nothing organic. They all seem to be nervous, weak, and irritable. They say it happened suddenly, like a balloon popping.
Kirk said: Can you handle it, Bones?
Mccoy said: I'm giving them stimulants to keep them on their feet.
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: Yeah, we can handle it, Jim.
Kirk said: Good. Kirk out. Hold our position, Mister Kyle.
Kyle said: Aye, aye, sir.
Kirk said: Spock, give me an update on the dark area ahead.
Spock said: No analysis due to insufficient information.
Kirk said: No speculation, no information, nothing. I've asked you three times for information on that, and you've been unable to supply it. Insufficient data is not sufficient, Mister Spock. You're the science officer. You're supposed to have sufficient data all the time.
Spock said: I am well aware of that, Captain, but the computers contain nothing on this phenomenon. It is beyond our experience, and the new information is not yet significant.
Kirk said: I don't know about you but I'm tired. If you can't tell me what it is, let's use reverse logic. Perhaps it'll help if you tell me what it isn't.
Spock said: It is not liquid, gaseous, or solid, despite the fact we cannot see through it.
Kirk said: So far that's not much help.
Spock said: It is not a galactic nebula such as the Coal Sack, and since our deflectors were activated by it, it would seem to be some form of energy, but nothing our sensors can identify.
Kirk said: Is it possible that this is what killed that solar system and the Intrepid?
Spock said: Very possible.
Kirk said: Lieutenant.
Uhura said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Notify the Starfleet that we're going to attempt to probe the area of darkness to gain further information.
Uhura said: Aye, aye, sir.
Kirk pauses, exhausted on his way back to his chair.
Spock said: Captain?
Kirk said: I'm all right. Distance from zone of darkness, Mister Kyle?
Kyle said: One hundred thousand kilometres, sir.
Kirk said: Ahead slow. Impulse power only.
Kyle said: Aye, aye, sir.
Uhura said: Transmission to Starfleet complete, sir.
Kirk said: Very good. Time, Mister Chekov?
Chekov said: Penetration of the zone in one minute, seven seconds, sir.
Kirk said: Red Alert. Deflectors full power. Phaser banks ready.
Chekov said: Phasers standing by. Deflectors at full power, sir.
That eardrum splitting sound comes again.
Uhura said: It's not coming from communications, sir.
Kirk said: Spock!
Spock said: Analysing now, Captain.
The sound goes.
Chekov said: Captain, the stars are gone!
The viewscreen is completely blank.
Kirk said: Malfunction, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Negative, Captain. All systems functioning properly.
Kirk said: Then kindly tell me what happened to the stars.
Spock said: Unknown, Captain.
Kirk said: Kirk to McCoy.
Mccoy said: McCoy here.
Kirk said: Things any better down there?
Mccoy said: Worse. They're backed up into the corridor.
Kirk said: Have you got anything that will help up here? I don't want anybody folding on the bridge at a critical moment.
Mccoy said: On my way. McCoy out.
Kirk said: Kirk to Engineering. Scotty, there was a power loss. How come?
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: We lost five percent of our energy reserve, sir. Our deflector shields are weakened.
Kirk said: Can you compensate for the loss?
Scott said: Aye, if we don't lose any more. Don't ask me how it happened.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: I am asking how, mister. I want answers. Kirk out.
McCoy enters with a nurse, and starts injecting the crew.
Kirk said: What's that?
Mccoy said: A stimulant.
Kirk said: Bones, how bad is it?
Mccoy said: Two thirds of the personnel are affected.
Kirk said: Why? How? Do you have any answers?
Mccoy said: No. You know you'll get everything I can tell you. But when there is nothing, what should I say?
The man at the engineering station collapses.
Mccoy said: Nurse.
Kirk said: This ship is in trouble. We'd better start solving problems faster than we pick up new ones. We seem to be in the middle of a creeping paralysis. Mister Spock, analysis of that last burst of noise before we started losing power.
Spock said: That sound was turbulence caused by the penetration of a boundary layer, Captain.
Kirk said: What boundary layer?
Spock said: Unknown.
Kirk said: Boundary layer between what and what?
Spock said: Between where we were and where we are.
Kirk said: Are you trying to be funny, Mister Spock?
Spock said: It would never occur to me, Captain.
Kirk said: Do you have any ideas, Spock?
Spock said: We still have no specifics, but we seem to have entered a zone of energy which is incompatible with our living and mechanical processes. As we draw closer to the source, it grows stronger and we grow weaker.
Kirk said: Recommendations.
Mccoy said: I have one. I recommend survival. Let's get out of here.
Kirk said: This is the Captain. We're on a difficult mission, but it's not the first time. Our orders do not say stay alive or retreat.
Scene: Engineering.
Kirk said: Our mission is to investigate.
Scene: Sickbay.
Kirk said: We're sick, and we're getting sicker.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: We have no guarantees, but we have a good ship and the best crew in Starfleet. So do your jobs. Carry on. Kirk out.
Scene: McCoy's office.
Mccoy said: Sickbay to Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Kirk here. Go ahead, Bones.
Mccoy said: Jim, according to the life indicators, the energy levels
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Yes, say it, Bones.
Scene: McCoy's office.
Mccoy said: According to the life monitors, we're dying.
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: We're all dying.
Captain's log, stardate 4308.8. It is now ten minutes since we entered the zone of darkness. We have stopped engines while we seek a defence against the energy drain which seems to pervade the zone.
Scene: Engineering.
Kirk enters and is promptly thrown sideways by a massive jolt to the ship.
Kirk said: Are you all right?
Scott said: Yes.
Kirk said: What was that?
Scott said: I'm sorry, sir. I'm not sure. I was trying to recalibrate, and we went into reverse.
Kirk said: Reverse? But that was a forward lurch. How could that happen in reverse thrust?
Scott said: I don't know, sir. All I know is that the power levels are down twelve percent and steadily decreasing. I've never experienced anything like it.
Spock said: Bridge to Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Sir, we are accelerating. We are being pulled toward the centre of the zone of darkness.
Kirk said: By what, Spock?
Spock said: Unknown, Captain. I suggest you order Mister Scott to give us reverse power.
Scene: Engineering.
Kirk said: He just gave us reverse power. We lurched forward.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: In that case, Captain, I would suggest we apply forward thrust.
Scene: Sickbay.
Chapel said: Doctor. Life function indicators. They've started a sharp drop again.
Mccoy said: Stimulants. I don't know how long we can keep this up.
Scene: Engineering.
Kirk said: What do you think, Scotty? Forward thrust?
Scott said: I don't know, sir. It goes against the rules of logic.
Kirk said: Yes, doesn't it? Well, if it doesn't work, I'll never let Spock live it down. Notch it into forward.
Scott said: But
Kirk said: Go ahead.
Scott said: That's doing it, sir. We're slowing down. But we're not stopping. We're still being dragged forward.
Kirk said: Have one of your engineers monitor the instruments. Keep applying thrust against the pull.
Scene: Sickbay.
Chapel said: Doctor, they seem to be stabilising.
Mccoy said: But at a dangerously low level. Well, we're still alive. I suppose that's something.
Scene: Briefing room.
Mccoy said: All I can contribute is the further we travel into this zone of darkness, the weaker our life functions become, and I have no idea why. I'm all right. It's those stimulants. They catch up with you.
KIRK; Engineering.
Scott said: As to the power levels are concerned, everything is acting backwards, but the drain is continuing. On the static test, I could only get sixty percent power. We're still being dragged forward.
Kirk said: Spock.
Spock said: It's logical to assume that something within this zone absorbs all forms of energy whether mechanically or biologically produced. Whatever it is, it would seem to be the same thing which drew all the energy out of an entire solar system and the Intrepid.
Kirk said: The same thing, not the zone itself?
Spock said: I would say not, Captain. The analysis of the zone indicates it is a negative energy field, however illogical that may sound, but it is not the source of the power drain.
Kirk said: Maybe it's a shield of some kind. Some form of protection for something else.
Scott said: But what?
Kirk said: We'll find out what it is, but we'd better get out of here ourselves. Scotty, channel all the impulse and warp power into one massive thrust forward. That might snap us out of the zone.
Scott said: Aye, Captain, but I'll reserve some for the shields in case we don't get out.
Spock said: I submit, Mister Scott, if we do not get out, the shields would be extraneous. It would only prolong our wait for death by a short period of time.
Kirk said: Use whatever power is necessary to get us out of here, Scotty. Report to your stations, continue your research. Dismissed.
The department heads leave Kirk and Spock alone.
Spock said: Captain, the Intrepid would have done all these things too, and yet they were destroyed.
Kirk said: Well, they may not have done all of these things. You just pointed out how illogical this situation is.
Spock said: True. It is also true they never knew what was killing them. Their logic would not have permitted them to believe they were being killed.
Kirk said: Explain.
Spock said: Vulcan has not been conquered within its collective memory. The memory goes back so far that no Vulcan can conceive of a conqueror. I knew the ship was lost because I sensed it.
Kirk said: What was it you sensed?
Spock said: The touch of death.
Kirk said: And what do you think they felt?
Spock said: Astonishment.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott is working on the upper level
Scott said: That ought to do it. Engineering to Captain Kirk.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Kirk here. What is it, Scotty?
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: Ready to try it when you are, sir.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Do we have the power to pull it off, Scotty?
Scott said: I hope so, Captain.
Kirk said: Stand by. All hands, this is the captain. We are slowly being pulled deeper into the zone of darkness by an unknown force. We're going to apply
Scene: Sickbay.
Kirk said: All available power
Scene: Engineering.
Kirk said: Into one giant forward thrust
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: In the hope that it will yank us out of the zone. Prepare yourselves. All right, Scotty. Let's get on with it.
Everybody braces themselves against the g-forces that are created by the acceleration. What happened to the inertial dampers? Then there's a sudden jolt and people get thrown around. Chapel is flung into McCoy's arms for example.
Kirk said: Scotty!
Scott said: It's no good, sir. The best we can do is to maintain thrust against the pull and hold our position.
Kirk said: Are we still losing power?
{Engineering]
Scott said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: How long will the power hold out?
Scott said: At this rate, plus the drain on all systems, two hours.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Maintain thrust, Scotty. While we're maintaining our distance, Mister Spock, have you ascertained yet what we're maintaining our distance from?
Spock said: I cannot say what it is, Captain, but I would say it has found us.
The viewscreen is no longer black. It contains a multicoloured image rather like an abalone.
Kirk said: Prepare to launch a probe, Mister Chekov.
Chekov said: Aye, sir. Probe ready for launch, sir.
Spock said: Getting very confused readings, Captain, but this is definitely the source of the energy drain.
Kirk said: Launch probe.
Chekov said: Probe launched, sir.
Spock said: Probe will impact in seven point three seconds.
Kyle said: Six, five, four, three, two, one.
The ship shudders.
Kirk said: Are we still in contact with the probe?
Chekov said: Yes, sir. Data being relayed to Mister Spock.
Spock said: Readings coming in now, Captain. Length, approximately eleven thousand miles. Width varying from two thousand to three thousand miles. Outer layer studded with space debris and waste. Interior consists of protoplasm, varying from a firmer gelatinous layer to a semi-fluid central mass. Condition, living.
Kirk said: Magnification four.
Chekov said: Magnification four, sir.
Spock said: That is what is drawing us toward it, Captain. The same way it drew the Intrepid to her death.
Scene: Laboratory.
There is an image of a single-celled organism on a screen.
Mccoy said: That is an amoeba.
Kirk said: Yes, I remember my basic biology, Doctor. You mean to tell me that that thing is a giant single-celled animal?
Mccoy said: Yes, for lack of a better term. It's a very simple form of life. In fact it's a much simpler form of life than what you're looking at now. But that thing can apparently perform all the functions that qualify it as a living organism. It can reproduce, it can breathe, it can eat, although I don't know what.
Spock said: Energy itself, perhaps, drained from us. I would speculate that this unknown life form is invading our galaxy like a virus.
Kirk said: The Intrepid died of that particular virus. How is it we survived?
Spock said: The Intrepid must have come across the organism while it was still low in energy, still hungry. We are not safe, Captain. We merely have a little more time than the Intrepid did.
Kirk said: What about this zone of darkness? Does the organism generate it itself as a form of protection?
Mccoy said: It's one of the things we've got to find out. We've got to take a closer look at it.
Kirk said: The closer we get, the faster our energy drains out. We're barely surviving at this distance.
Mccoy said: Perhaps we could risk the shuttlecraft. Perhaps with a protective shield
Kirk said: I'm not sending anyone anywhere. Unmanned probes can give us the information we need to destroy this thing, if it can be destroyed.
Spock said: I must differ with you, Captain. We have sent unmanned probes into it. They have given us some information but they have not told us what we need to know, and we cannot afford the power to take blind shots at it, hoping to kill it.
Mccoy said: We could send one man in, pinpoint its vulnerable spots.
Kirk said: DO you know what the odds are in coming back? I can't order a man to do that.
Mccoy said: Who said anything about an order, Jim? You've got a volunteer. I've done the preliminary work.
Kirk said: It's a suicide mission.
Spock said: The thing evidently has reflexes. The unmanned probe we sent in must have stung it when it entered. The lurch we felt was the turbulence of its reaction.
Mccoy said: All right, so I'd know enough to go slow when we penetrated its vulnerable spots.
Spock said: You have a martyr complex, Doctor. I submit that it disqualifies you.
Mccoy said: Do you think I intend to pass up the greatest living laboratory since
Spock said: The Vulcans saw it first and died.
Mccoy said: Just because the Vulcans failed
Spock said: I am more capable.
Kirk said: Gentlemen, I am not taking volunteers.
Mccoy said: You don't think you're going?
Kirk said: I'm better qualified as a command pilot than you are.
Spock said: Which makes you indispensable, Captain. Further, you are not a science specialist.
Mccoy said: Jim, that organism contains chemical processes we've never seen before and may never see again. We could learn more in one day
Spock said: We don't have one day, Doctor. We have precisely one hour and thirty five minutes of power left.
Mccoy said: Jim
Spock said: Captain, I
Kirk said: Gentlemen, I'll decide.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Kirk said: Captain's personal log, stardate 4309.2. We have established that the thing which destroyed the USS Intrepid and the Gamma Seven=A system is an incredibly huge but simple cellular being whose energies are totally destructive to all known life. Both Mister Spock and Doctor McCoy have volunteered to go in a specially equipped shuttlecraft to penetrate the cell, find a way to destroy it, and free the ship. Doctor McCoy has the medical-biological knowledge. Mister Spock is better suited physically and emotionally to stand the stress. Both are right, both are capable, and which of my friends do I condemn to death? This is the captain. Mister Spock, Doctor McCoy, report to my quarters immediately. Kirk out.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: Engineering to Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Scott said: You asked me to keep you informed on the power drain. All levels are down fifty percent now
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Scott said: And still draining. We can maintain thrust for another hour and fifteen minutes.
Spock and McCoy enter.
Kirk said: Very well. Prepare the shuttlecraft for launching.
Scott said: Sir?
Kirk said: Doctor McCoy will tell you what special equipment to put in. Kirk out. I'm sorry, Mister Spock.
MCCOY; Right. I'll get a few things I need, Jim.
Kirk said: Not you, Bones. I'm sorry, Mister Spock. You're best qualified to go.
Scene: Corridor.
Spock said: Do not suffer so, Doctor. This is not the first time superior capability has proven more valuable than professional credentials.
Mccoy said: Nothing has been proven yet, Spock. The DNA code analyser will give you the fundamental structure of the thing. You'll need readings on three light wavelengths from the enzyme recorder.
Spock said: I am familiar with the equipment, Doctor. We're wasting time. The shuttlecraft is ready.
Mccoy said: You're determined not to let me share in this, aren't you?
Spock said: This is not a competition, Doctor. Whether you understand it or not, grant me my own kind of dignity.
Mccoy said: Vulcan dignity? How can I grant you what I don't understand?
Spock said: Then employ one of your own superstitions. Wish me luck.
Silence and stares, then McCoy opens the hangar deck door. Spock walks across and into the Galileo. The doors shut.
Mccoy said: Good luck, Spock.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: All systems clear for shuttlecraft launch. sir.
Kirk said: Launch shuttlecraft.
Kyle said: Shuttlecraft away, sir.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura, channel automatic telemetry directly to the computers.
Uhura said: Aye, aye, sir.
Spock said: Shuttlecraft to Enterprise.
Kirk said: Come in, Spock.
Scene: Shuttlecraft.
Spock said: Power drain is enormous and growing worse.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Chekov.
Chekov goes to the science station.
Spock said: Diverting all secondary power to the shields. (McCoy enters) I'll continue communications as long as there is power to transmit.
Scott said: Captain, h e won't have enough power to get back out if he diverts it to his shields. KIRK: Spock.
Spock said: I heard, Captain.
Scene: Shuttlecraft.
Spock said: We discussed that possibility earlier. But you will need this information.
Kirk said: When do you estimate penetration?
Spock said: Slowing now. Contact in eighteen point three seconds. Brace yourselves. The area of penetration will no doubt be sensitive. Contact
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: In six seconds.
Spock is thrown around in the shuttlecraft, everyone on the ship just feels a jolt.
Kirk said: Report, Mister Spock. Spock, report.
Spock said: I am undamaged, Captain. Relay to Mister Scott I had three percent power reserve before the shields stabilised.
Scene: Shuttlecraft.
Spock said: There was nothing to spare. I shall continue my tests. Oh, and Doctor McCoy. You would have not survived it.
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: You want to bet?
Scene: Shuttlecraft.
Spock said: I am moving slowly now, establishing course toward what appears to be the nucleus.
Scene: Bridge.
Chekov said: Sir, Mister Spock has reduced life-support systems to bare minimum.
Kirk said: Spock, save your power for the shields.
Spock said: Calculations indicate the shields will last only forty seven minutes.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: However, I am able to identify the chromosome structure.
Scene: Shuttlecraft.
Spock said: Changes indicate the organism has stored sufficient energy for reproductive process to commence.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: You mean there'll be two of those things?
Spock said: I'm having difficulty maintaining ship control.
Kirk said: Spock, do you read me? Spock, do you read me?
Spock said: I'm losing voice contact I will transmit internal co-ordinates of chromosome bodies.
Kirk said: Spock, come in. Come in.
Uhura said: Contact lost, sir.
The ship shakes.
Kirk said: He's alive! He's kicked it in the side to let us know.
Uhura said: Captain, I'm getting telemetry.
Kirk said: Mister Chekov, telemetry analysis as it comes in.
Chekov said: According to Spock's telemetry information, there are over forty chromosomes in the nucleus that are ready to come together, ready to reproduce.
Kirk said: If the energy of that organism only doubles, we're dead, and everything within a light year will be defenceless.
Mccoy said: Well, all I know is, that soon there'll be two, four, eight, and more. The entire anti-life matter that that thing puts out could someday encompass the entire galaxy.
Kirk said: Spock understood when he transmitted the co-ordinates of the chromosomes. We must destroy that organism.
Scott said: Captain, the pull from that organism is increasing, and the power drain from our shields is getting critical.
Kirk said: How much time do we have?
Scott said: No more than an hour now, sir.
Kirk said: Put all secondary systems on standby. Shield power has unconditional priority.
Scott said: Aye, sir.
Uhura said: Captain, I'm receiving a message from Mister Spock on a low-energy channel. It's faint, but it is readable.
Kirk said: Put it on, Lieutenant.
Uhura said: On audio, sir.
Spock said: This is Spock.
Scene: Shuttlecraft.
Spock said: I am slowly losing life support and minimal shield energies. According to my calculations
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: (Barely audible over static) The nervous energy of the organism is maximal just within its outer protective membrane. Relatively insensitive to interior irritation. I believe sufficient charge of (inaudible) could destroy the organism. Tell Doctor McCoy he should have wished me luck.
Captain's log stardate 4309.4. We have determined we can destroy the creature, provided we can do it from inside the organism. Spock clearly knew how to destroy it but was unable to transmit that information.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Mccoy said: How do you feel?
Kirk said: What's on your mind?
Mccoy said: Spock. Is it me, Jim? Am I so sentimental that I just have to keep believing that he's still alive in that mass of protoplasm?
Kirk said: He knew the odds when he went out there, just as you did when you volunteered to go. What is that thing out there, Bones? It's not intelligent. Not yet.
Mccoy said: It's a disease, like a virus invading the body of our galaxy.
Kirk said: Yes, it is, isn't it? How many cells does the human body have?
Mccoy said: Millions.
Kirk said: This thing, this cell, this virus. It's eleven thousand miles long, and it's one cell. When it grows into millions, we'll be the virus invading its body.
Mccoy said: Now, isn't that a thought? Here we are, antibodies of our own galaxy, attacking an invading germ. It would be ironic indeed if that were our sole destiny, wouldn't it?
Kirk said: Antibodies. Antibodies. (goes to desk monitor) Bridge.
Scott said: Scott here, sir.
Kirk said: Scotty, how much power do we have left?
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: We're down to forty three percent, sir. We're slipping a bit against the pull that beastie's putting on us.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Scott said: We can't last more than forty five minutes at this rate of decline. Less, if I have to apply more thrust.
Kirk said: What would happen if you diverted all remaining power to the shields, except for impulse power, keep that in reserve?
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Cut the engine thrust? We'd be sucked into that thing like being caught in a wind tunnel, sir.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Kirk said: Exactly. Prepare to divert power on my signal. Kirk out.
Kirk leans against the monitor, tired. McCoy scans him.
Kirk said: Have you got something to say?
Mccoy said: Technically, no. Medically, yes. Between the stimulants and the pressure, I would suggest you try to stay off your feet for a few minutes.
Kirk said: I don't have a few minutes, Bones. Maybe none of us do. Let's go.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: All hands, this is the captain. We're going to enter the body of the organism rather abruptly, I would think. Damage control parties stand by. All decks secure for collision. Kirk out.
Kirk said: Ready, Scotty.
Scott said: Switching power to shields. Impulse in reserve. Cutting thrust to zero, now!
Kyle said: Impact five seconds.
There's a big bump and people are thrown all over the place. Then there is calm.
Chekov said: We're through, sir.
Kirk said: I believe everybody is aware of that, Mister Chekov.
Uhura said: Damage control parties report minimal damage, sir. Repairs are being initiated.
Kirk said: Very good, Lieutenant.
Scott said: Captain, we've only twenty six percent power reserves after entry.
Kirk said: Do we have impulse power, Scotty?
Scott said: I saved all I could, sir, but I don't know whether we have enough to get back out again. Or time either.
Kirk said: We are committed.
Scott said: Aye, we are, but we're committed to what? We have no power for the phasers.
Mccoy said: We couldn't use it. We'd cook ourselves along with that mess of protoplasm out there
Kirk said: That thing would probably like phasers. It eats power.
Scott said: Then what the devil, begging your pardon sir, are we doing?
Kirk said: Mister Spock was trying to tell us what to do when we lost voice contact.
Scott said: We can't use the power to destroy it.
Kirk said: Anti-power.
Mccoy said: What?
Kirk said: This thing has a negative energy charge. Everything seems to work in reverse. We'll use anti-matter.
Scott said: Aye, it couldn't swallow that.
Kirk said: Mister Chekov, prepare a probe. Scotty, we'll need a magnetic bottle for the charge. How soon?
Scott said: It's on its way, sir.
Kirk said: Mister Chekov, we'll use a timing detonator for the probe. Work out a setting.
Chekov said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Helmsman, when do you estimate arrival at nucleus?
Kyle said: Seven minutes, sir.
Mccoy said: How close are you going to it?
Kirk said: Point blank range. We'll implant it then back away.
Mccoy said: Why? The probe has a range of
Kirk said: With the eddies and currents in that protoplasm, the probe could drift thousands of kilometres. We must be exactly on target, because we won't have a second chance. Bones, time for another stimulant.
Mccoy said: How long do you think you can keep taking that stuff? It'll blow you apart.
Kirk said: Keep me together for another seven minutes. That's all I need.
Scene: Shuttlecraft.
Spock said: Personal log, Commander Spock, USS Enterprise. I have noted the passage of the Enterprise on its way to whatever awaits it. If this record should survive me, I wish it known that I bequeath my highest commendation and testimonial to the captain, officers, and crew of the Enterprise. The finest starship in the fleet.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: (also making a log entry) We have arrived at the chromosome body in the nucleus of the organism. If we should fail in our attempt to destroy it, or be unable to free ourselves, I wish to record my recommendations for the following personnel, that they receive special citation. Lieutenant Commander Leonard McCoy, Lieutenant Commander Montgomery Scott, officers Chekov, Kyle, Uhura, and my highest commendation for Commander Spock, Science Officer, who gave his life in the performance of his duty.
Chekov said: Target co-ordinates programmed, sir. Probe ready for launch.
Kirk said: Mister Scott, how much time do we have left at one hundred percent impulse power?
Scott said: Six, maybe seven minutes, sir.
Kirk said: Mister Kyle, programme fuse for seven minute delay. All non-essential systems on standby. Communications, scanning, conserve every bit of power. We must make it through the membrane before that thing explodes. Make it work, Scotty.
Scott said: Aye, sir.
Chekov said: Programming complete. Ready for launch.
Kirk said: Launch probe at zero acceleration. Forward thrust off, one tenth of a second.
Kyle said: Forward thrust off, sir.
Chekov said: Probe launched, sir.
There's a little jolt.
Mccoy said: Despite what Spock said, it's still plenty sensitive.
Chekov said: Probe confirmed. It is lodged in the nucleus, near the chromosome bodies.
Kirk said: Mister Kyle, back us out the way we came in. Mister Chekov, a nice, straight line. Don't waste any time.
Kyle said: Backing out, sir.
Chekov said: Estimate we'll be out in six point thirty seven minutes.
Kirk said: Very good.
Chekov said: Captain, metallic substance outside the ship.
Mccoy said: Spock?
Kirk said: Lieutenant, get me Spock's voice channel. Highest possible gain.
Uhura said: Go ahead, sir.
Kirk said: Spock, do you read me? Do you read me, Spock, do you read me? Come in, Spock. Spock! Scotty, get a tractor beam.
Scott said: Captain, we don't have enough time to do it. We only have a fifty three second escape margin.
Kirk said: I'm well aware of that, Mister Scott. Get two tractor beams on that shuttlecraft.
Scott said: Aye, sir. Tractor beams on.
Spock said: Captain, I recommend you abandon the attempt.
Scene: Shuttlecraft.
Spock said: Do not risk the ship further on my behalf.
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: Shut up, Spock! We're rescuing you.
Scene: Shuttlecraft.
Spock said: Why, thank you, Captain McCoy.
Scene: Bridge.
Kyle said: Almost out. We're approaching the membrane, sir.
Kirk said: Time until explosion?
Chekov said: Fifty seven seconds, sir.
Kirk said: Maintaining tractor beams on shuttlecraft, Mister Scott?
Scott said: Aye, sir. I can't guarantee it'll hold when the warhead explodes. The power levels are (looks at readout) The power levels are dead, sir.
Kirk said: You may have just written our epitaph, Mister Scott.
The warhead must have exploded, because everyone goes flying around the bridge again.
Kirk said: Activate main viewing screen. (they see stars.) Mister Chekov, report.
Chekov said: The organism is destroyed, sir. The explosion must have ruptured the membrane and thrown us clear.
Scott said: Power's coming back, sir.
Kirk said: Shuttlecraft?
Scott said: I don't know how, sir, but it's still with us.
Scene: Shuttlecraft.
Spock said: Shuttlecraft to Enterprise. Shuttlecraft to Enterprise. Request permission to come aboard.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Spock, you're alive!
Scene: Shuttlecraft.
Spock said: Obviously, Captain. And I have some fascinating data on the organism.
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: Don't be so smart, Spock. You botched the acetylcholine test.
Kirk said: Later, later, later. Bring the shuttlecraft aboard, Mister Scott.
Scott said: Aye, sir.
Kyle said: Prepare to receive shuttlecraft. Received shuttlecraft. Hangar doors closed. Hangar deck pressurising.
Kirk said: Mister Chekov, lay in a course for Starbase Six. Ahead warp factor five. I'm still looking forward to a nice period of rest and relaxation on some lovely (gazes at yeoman) planet.