Journey to Babel
Stardate: 3842.3
Original Airdate: 17 Nov, 1967
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Enterprise is orbiting a very red planet, and Kirk is checking his appearance in a mirror.
Mccoy said: Dress uniforms, spit and polish. I don't know how much longer I'm going to be able to stand this. I feel like my neck's in a sling.
Kirk said: The Vulcans are the last delegates we have to pick up. As soon as we get them aboard, we'll be able to relax.
They leave.
Scene: Corridor.
Mccoy said: Sure. A formal reception tonight, a hundred and fourteen delegates aboard for two weeks, thirty two of them ambassadors, (Spock joins them) half of them mad at the other half, and the whole lot touchier than a raw antimatter pile over this Coridan question.
Intercom whistles
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Chekov said: Shuttlecraft approaching with Ambassador Sarek's party. Estimate arrival one minute.
Kirk said: Bring them aboard, Mister Chekov.
Chekov said: Standby to recover shuttlecraft. Honour guard to the hangar deck.
Scene: Hangar deck.
As the NCC1701/7 arrives, the honour guard smarted themselves up outside.
Voice said: Clear hangar deck. Clear hangar deck. Depressurising. Recovering shuttlecraft. Hangar deck pressurising.
The guard line up, holding phasers with arms crossed.
Mccoy said: How does that Vulcan salute go?
Spock demonstrates - right hand with the fingers separated into a V-sign.
Mccoy said: That hurts worse than the uniform.
A couple are escorted from the shuttlecraft.
Kirk said: Captain James Kirk.
Sarek said: Captain.
Kirk said: My First Officer, Commander Spock.
Spock said: Vulcan honours us with your presence. We come to serve.
Sarek said: Your service honours us, Captain.
Kirk said: Thank you. Chief Medical Officer Doctor McCoy.
Mccoy said: Ambassador.
Sarek said: Doctor. My aides and she who is my wife.
He holds out his right hand with two fingers extended, and a human woman steps forward to touch them.
Amanda said: Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Our pleasure, madam. As soon as you're settled I'll arrange a tour of the ship. Mister Spock will conduct you.
Sarek said: I'd prefer another guide, Captain.
Kirk said: As you wish, Ambassador. Mister Spock, we'll leave orbit in two hours. Would you care to beam down and visit your parents?
Spock said: Captain, Ambassador Sarek and his wife are my parents.
Captain's log, Stardate 3842.3. We have departed Vulcan for the neutral planetoid code-named Babel. Since it is in our sector, the Enterprise has been assigned to transport ambassadors of Federation planets to this vitally important council. The issues of the council are politically complex, the passengers explosive.
Scene: Engineering.
Kirk is conducting Sarek and Amanda's tour himself. Spock is doing something in Engineering when they enter.
Kirk said: This is the engineering section. There are a number of emergency back-up systems for the main controls. Over here are a number of control computers.
Amanda lags behind to talk with her son.
Amanda said: After all these years among humans, you still haven't learned to smile.
Spock said: Humans smile with so little provocation.
Amanda said: And you haven't come to see us in four years, either.
Spock said: The situation between my father and myself has not changed.
Sarek said: My wife, attend.
Kirk said: Mister Spock. A moment, if you please.
Spock said: Yes, Captain?
Kirk said: Explain the computer components.
Sarek said: I gave Spock his first instruction in computers, Captain. He chose to devote his knowledge to Starfleet instead of the Vulcan Science Academy.
Spock said: If you will excuse me, Captain. (leaves)
Kirk said: I'm sorry, Ambassador. I did not mean to offend. I thought that
Sarek said: Offence is a human emotion. I'm returning to my quarters. Continue, my wife. (leaves)
Kirk said: Mrs. Sarek, I just don't understand.
Amanda said: Amanda. I'm afraid you couldn't pronounce the Vulcan name.
Kirk said: Can you?
Amanda said: After a fashion, and after many years of practice. Shall we continue the tour? My husband did request it.
Kirk said: It sounded more like a command.
Amanda said: Of course. He's a Vulcan. I'm his wife.
Kirk said: And Spock is his son.
Amanda said: You don't understand the Vulcan way, Captain. It's logical. It's a better way than ours. But it's not easy. It has kept Spock and Sarek from speaking as father and son for eighteen years.
Kirk said: Spock is my best officer, and my friend.
Amanda said: I'm glad he has such a friend. It hasn't been easy on Spock. Neither human nor Vulcan. At home nowhere except Starfleet.
Kirk said: I take it that Spock disagreed with his father on a choice of career.
Amanda said: My husband has nothing against Starfleet. But Vulcans believe that peace should not depend on force.
Kirk said: Starfleet force is used only as a last resort. We're an instrument of civilisation. And it's a better opportunity for a scientist to study the universe than he can get at the Vulcan Science Academy.
Amanda said: Perhaps. But Sarek wanted Spock to follow his teachings, as Sarek followed the teachings of his own father.
Kirk said: They are both stubborn.
Amanda said: A human trait, Captain?
Uhura said: Bridge to Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Excuse me. Kirk here.
Uhura said: Captain, I've picked up some sort of signal. Just a few symbols. Nothing intelligible.
Kirk said: Source?
Uhura said: That's what bothers me, sir. Impossible to locate. There wasn't enough of it. Sensors show nothing in the area, but it was a strong signal, as though it was very close.
Kirk said: Go to alert status four. Begin long-range scanning. Kirk out.
Captain's log, Stardate 3842.4. The interplanetary conference will consider the petition of the Coridan planets to be admitted to the Federation. The Coridan system has been claimed by some of the races now aboard our ship as delegates, races who have strong personal reasons for keeping Coridan out of the Federation. The most pressing problem aboard the Enterprise is to make sure open warfare doesn't break out among the delegates before the conference begins.
Scene: Lounge.
People of all shapes, sizes and colours are helping themselves to drinks and nibbles from buffet tables.
Mccoy said: Mister Ambassador, I understand you had retired before this conference was called. Forgive my curiosity, but as a doctor, I'm interested in Vulcan physiology. Isn't it unusual for a Vulcan to retire at your age? After all, you're only a hundred and two.
Sarek said: One hundred two point four three seven precisely, Doctor, measured in your years. I had other concerns.
Kirk said: Ambassador.
Gav said: (a stout chap with a porcine nose) Sarek of Vulcan, do you vote to admit Coridan to the Federation?;
Sarek said: The vote will not be taken here, Ambassador Gav. My government's instructions will be heard in the council chambers on Babel.
Gav said: No! You! How do you vote, Sarek of Vulcan?
Shras said: (thin and blue, with two antennae) Why must you know, Tellarite?
Gav said: In council, his vote carries others. I will know where he stands and why.
Sarek said: Tellarites do not argue for reasons. They simply argue.
Gav said: No. You
Kirk said: Gentlemen. Ambassador Sarek is quite correct when he points out this is not the council chamber of Babel. I'm fully aware that the admission of Coridan is a highly debatable issue, but you won't solve it here.
Sarek said: You are correct, Captain. Quite logical.
Shras said: My apologies, Captain.
Gav said: You will excuse me. (stalks away)
Shras said: Have you met Gav before, Ambassador?
Sarek said: We debated during my last council session. Ambassador.
Amanda said: Ambassador Gav lost.
Mccoy said: Spock, I've always suspected that you were a little more human than you let on. Mrs. Sarek, I know about the rigorous training of the Vulcan youth, but tell me, did he ever run and play like the human children, even in secret?
Amanda said: Well, he, he did have a pet sehlat he was very fond of.
Mccoy said: Sehlat?
Amanda said: It's sort of a fat teddy bear.
Mccoy said: A teddy bear?
Sarek said: Excuse me, Doctor. It has been a rather long day for my wife. Captain.
Kirk said: Ambassador.
Sarek leads Amanda away.
Mccoy said: A teddy bear.
Spock said: Not precisely, Doctor. On Vulcan, the teddy bears are alive, and they have six-inch fangs.
Chekov said: Bridge to Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Chekov said: Captain, sensors are registering an unidentified vessel pacing us.
Kirk said: On my way. All duty personnel on Yellow Alert. Don't alarm the passengers. Kirk out.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Report.
Chekov said: A small ship, Captain. It's been there five minutes, remaining outside phaser range at extreme limit of sensors.
Kirk said: Identification, Spock?
Spock said: Sensors indicate the size of a scout ship, but the configuration is unfamiliar. Most unusual.
Kirk said: Does she answer a hail?
Uhura said: I've tried all frequencies and hooked in the universal translator. No response, sir.
KIRK; Maintain translator broadcast. Check records for authorised ships.
Spock said: Starfleet records no authorised vessel in this quadrant except ours.
Kirk said: Care to guess what she is?
Spock said: Guess, Captain? I shall need more data for my estimate.
Kirk said: Mister Chekov, plot course to intercept that vessel. I want to see what she looks like close up.
Chekov said: Aye, sir.
Scene: Sarek's quarters.
Sarek said: You embarrassed Spock this evening. Not even a mother may do that. He is a Vulcan.
Amanda said: He's also human.
Sarek said: He's a Starfleet officer.
Amanda said: I thought you didn't approve of Starfleet.
Sarek said: It is not a question of approval. The fact exists. He is in Starfleet. He must command respect if he is to function.
Amanda said: Sarek, you're proud of him, aren't you? You're showing almost human pride in your son.
Sarek said: It does not require pride to ask that Spock be given the respect which is his due. Not as my son, but as Spock. Do you understand?
Amanda said: Not really, but it doesn't matter. I love you anyway. I know. It isn't logical.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Vessel changing course, heading toward us at high warp speed.
Kirk said: Ready main phasers.
Chekov said: Phasers armed and ready, sir.
The bright dot on the viewscreen whizzes past them.
Spock said: Interesting. They were travelling at approximately warp ten.
Kirk said: Back on original course, Mister Chekov. Report on intruder's movements.
Uhura said: Captain, Starfleet acknowledges report on our situation and confirms no authorised Federation vessel in this quadrant.
Chekov said: Back on original heading, Captain. The intruder changed course immediately after we did. It's paralleling us again.
Kirk said: Well, we have a shadow. Faster, more manoeuvrable and unidentified. Mister Spock, full analysis of sensor readings. I want to know who that intruder is.
Scene: Lounge.
Sarek enters, and surreptitiously takes a tablet with a drink.
Gav said: Vulcan, I would speak to you.
Sarek said: It does seem unavoidable.
Gav said: How do you vote on the Coridan admission?
Sarek said: You seem unwilling to wait for the council meeting, Ambassador. No matter. We favour admission.
Gav said: You favour? Why?
The room goes silent.
Sarek said: Under Federation law, Coridan can be protected and its wealth administered for the benefit of its people.
Gav said: That's well for you. Vulcan has no mining interest.
Sarek said: Coridan has nearly unlimited wealth of dilithium crystals, but it is under-populated and unprotected. This invites illegal mining operations.
Gav said: Illegal? You accuse us?
Sarek said: Some of your ships have been carrying Coridan dilithium crystals.
Gav said: You call us thieves?
Gav attacks Sarek, who shrugs him off easily.
Kirk said: Gentlemen. Gentlemen. Whatever arguments you have between yourselves is your business. My business is running the ship. As long as I command, there will be order.
Sarek said: Of course, Captain.
Gav said: Understood. There will be payment for your slander, Sarek.
Sarek said: Threats are illogical. And payment is usually expensive.
Gav leaves.
Scene: Corridor.
The Tellarite is hanging upside down from a Jefferies tube. He is not doing spine stretching exercises.
Joseph said: Security to Captain Kirk.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Joseph said: Lieutenant Joseph, sir. I'm on deck eleven, section A3. I've just found one of the Tellarites murdered. I think it's the ambassador himself, sir.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: How was he killed?
Mccoy said: His neck was broken. By an expert.
Kirk said: Explain.
Mccoy said: Well, from the nature and location of the break, I'd say the killer knew exactly where to apply pressure to snap the neck instantly.
Kirk said: Who aboard would have that knowledge?
Spock said: Vulcans. On Vulcan, the method is called tal-shaya. It was considered a merciful form of execution in ancient times.
Kirk said: Spock. A short time ago, I broke up an argument between Gav and your father.
Spock said: Indeed, Captain? Interesting.
Mccoy said: Interesting? Spock, do you realise that makes your father the most likely suspect?
Spock said: Vulcans do not approve of violence.
Kirk said: You're saying he couldn't have done it?
Spock said: No, Captain. I'm merely saying it would be illogical to kill without reason.
Kirk said: But if he had a reason, could he have done it?
Spock said: If there were a reason, my father is quite capable of killing. Logically and efficiently.
Scene: Sarek's quarters.
Kirk said: Mrs. Sarek, I'm sorry to disturb you. I must speak to your husband.
Amanda said: He's been gone for some time. It's his habit to meditate in private before retiring. What's wrong? Spock?
Sarek said: You want something of me, Captain?
Kirk said: Ambassador, the Tellarite. Gav has been murdered.
Mccoy said: His neck was broken, Mister Ambassador, by what Spock describes as tal-shaya.
Sarek said: Indeed? Interesting.
Kirk said: Yes. Ambassador, where were you during the past hour?
Amanda said: Captain, you're not accusing him?
Spock said: Mother. If only on circumstantial evidence, he is a logical suspect.
Sarek said: I quite agree.
Kirk said: Then where were you during the hour?
Sarek said: In private meditation, Captain. Spock will tell you that such meditation is a personal experience, not to be discussed. especially not with Earthmen.
Kirk said: That's a very convenient excuse, Ambassador.
Sarek suddenly collapses.
Amanda said: Sarek. Sarek. What's wrong?
Mccoy said: It's difficult to say with Vulcan physiology, but I believe it's something to do with his cardiovascular system.
Kirk said: Can you help him?
Mccoy said: I don't know that yet either.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Spock?
Spock said: Yes, Captain. I get sensor readings of tri-tritanium from the alien ship's hull.
Kirk said: I'm sorry about your father.
Spock said: Yes, it could adversely affect our mission.
Kirk said: Aren't you worried about him?
Spock said: Worry is a human emotion, Captain. I accept what has happened. The ship's hull seems to have a high density level or is cloaked against sensor probes. It is manned, but sensors cannot make out specifics.
Kirk said: I see. Well, the Romulans have nothing like it. Certainly not the Federation or the neutral planets. What about the Klingons?
Spock said: I think it unlikely it is one of theirs.
Kirk said: Who, then?
Uhura said: Captain? I picked up the last part of a transmission. Just like that other one. I put the recorder and the directional locator on it immediately.
Kirk said: Mister Chekov, directional locator indicates source bearing twenty seven, mark eight.
Chekov said: It's the intruder ship, sir.
Kirk said: Switch recorder to Mister Spock's station for decode, Lieutenant.
Uhura said: Sir, the directional locator indicates reception point somewhere within the body of this ship.
Kirk said: A personal receiver? Somebody on board is in contact with that vessel?
Spock said: Possibly, Captain. But I cannot decode this transmission.
Kirk said: Why not?
Spock said: It is in no known code. There's no detectable pattern. No standard references apply.
Kirk said: Are any conclusions possible from the information?
Spock said: Only negative. It fits none of our computer records, and it is alien.
Kirk said: Murder? Someone out there playing tag? Lieutenant, you've got your sensor locator on a wide beam. You've established a receiver on board this vessel. Tighten your field to the interior of the ship.
Uhura said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: If that alien vessel starts transmitting again, I want to know who on board the Enterprise is receiving.
Scene: Sickbay.
Kirk said: Bones, how is he?
Mccoy said: As far as I can tell from instrument readings, our prime suspect has a malfunction in one of the heart valve. It's similar to a heart attack in a human. But with Vulcan physiology, it's impossible to tell without an operation. Mrs. Sarek, has he had any previous attacks?
Amanda said: No.
Sarek said: Yes. There were three others. My physician prescribed Benjisidrine for the condition.
Amanda said: Why didn't you tell me?
Sarek said: There was nothing you could have done.
Kirk said: Ambassador, when did you have these attacks?
Sarek said: Two before we left Vulcan, the third a few hours ago. I was on the observation deck. When the Tellarite was murdered, I was quite incapacitated.
Kirk said: There were no witnesses?
Sarek said: None.
Spock said: Doctor, do you propose surgery for the heart defect?
Mccoy said: I'm not sure. It's tough enough on a human. On a Vulcan, an ordinary operation's out of the question.
Kirk said: Why?
Sarek said: Because of the construction of the Vulcan heart.
Spock said: I suggest that a cryogenic open-heart procedure would be the logical approach.
Sarek said: Yes, unquestionably.
Kirk said: Bones, what about it?
Mccoy said: Well, I'm glad somebody's asking me something around here. Well, the procedure they're discussing would require tremendous amounts of blood for the patient.
Chapel said: Doctor?
Mccoy said: Yes.
Chapel said: I've checked the blood bank. There isn't enough Vulcan blood and plasma to even begin such an operation of this type.
Kirk said: There are other Vulcans aboard.
Sarek said: My blood type is T-negative. Somewhat rare, even for a Vulcan.
Mccoy said: Yes, I'd say that's rare.
Spock said: My blood is T-negative, Doctor.
Chapel said: We've run a number of blood tests on Mister Spock. It isn't true Vulcan blood either. It has human blood elements in it.
Spock said: It should be possible to filter out the human factors.
Mccoy said: Even you couldn't give that much blood, Spock. It would kill you.
Kirk said: Bones.
Mccoy said: Mrs. Sarek, you must understand the chances are extremely small to find a way to produce sufficient T-negative blood.
Spock said: Indeed. I would estimate the odds
Amanda said: Please don't.
Scene: McCoy's office.
Spock said: Doctor.
Mccoy said: I see it, Spock, but that was a Rigelian.
Spock said: Rigelian physiology is very similar to Vulcan.
Mccoy said: Similar is not good enough. It's still experimental.
Spock said: But it does look promising.
Mccoy said: Spock, we would need such great amounts of blood that, even if the drug worked on the Vulcans as well as a Rigelian, which I'm doubtful, it would still drain Sarek to a critical level.
Spock said: I consider the safety factor low, but acceptable.
Mccoy said: Plus the fact I've never operated on a Vulcan before. Oh, I've studied the anatomical types. I know where all the organs are. But that's a lot different from actual surgical experience. So if I don't kill him with the operation, the drug probably will.
Amanda said: What drug, Doctor? My husband is asleep. What drug?
Mccoy said: A chemical stimulant to speed up reproduction and replacement of blood in the body. It's only experimental.
Spock said: It has been used successfully on test subjects on Rigel Five.
Mccoy said: It places a tremendous strain on the spleen and the liver. In Sarek's condition, the stimulant would kill him.
Spock said: Miss Chapel? I underwent a physical examination last week. Would you pull those records, please?
Chapel said: Already pulled. You're perfectly healthy, Mister Spock.
Mccoy said: What has that got
Amanda said: You're going to use it on yourself. A transfusion from you to your father.
Spock said: It would seem the only answer.
Mccoy said: It could damage you internally. It could kill you. I'm sorry, Spock. I can't sanction it.
Amanda said: And I refuse to permit it. I won't risk both of you.
Spock said: Then you automatically condemn Sarek to death. And you, Doctor, have no logical alternative either. If you do not operate, Sarek will die. You now have the means to perform the operation. I am volunteering myself as the blood donor. I'll be at my station until you require me.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk is in the middle of a vigorous fight with an Andorian (the blue people with antennae. The Andorian pulls a knife and stabs Kirk before getting kicked unconscious.)
Kirk said: Bridge. Spock.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Spock here.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: I'm on deck five, near my quarters. I've been attacked by an Andorian. Security. Security team.
He passes out. SPOCK [OC]: Captain? Captain? Captain?
Captain's log, stardate 3843.4. First Officer Spock in temporary command. The captain has been critically wounded by one of the delegates to the Babel conference. The ship is on alert status. We are still being followed by the intruder vessel.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: It's a bad wound. Punctured left lung. A centimetre or so lower, it'd have gone through the heart.
Spock said: I'll be in the brig questioning the Andorian prisoner.
Chapel said: (monitoring Sarek) Doctor, the K2 factor is dropping.
Mccoy said: Spock, your father is much worse. There's no longer a choice. I have to operate immediately. We can begin as soon as you're prepared.
Spock said: No, Doctor.
Mccoy said: What?
Spock said: My first responsibility is to the ship. Our passengers' safety is by Starfleet order of first importance. We are being followed by an alien, possibly hostile, vessel. I cannot relinquish command under these circumstances.
Mccoy said: You can turn command over to Scotty.
Spock said: On what grounds, Doctor? Command requirements do not recognise personal privilege. I'll be in the brig interrogating the Andorian.
Scene: Brig.
Shras said: He is Thelev, a minor member of my staff. I know nothing of him except that he has served adequately.
Spock said: He has been subjected to questioning under verifier scan and truth drug. He reveals nothing. I suggest his mind has been so conditioned as part of a preconceived plan.
Shras said: My people are a violent race, but we've no quarrel with Captain Kirk.
Spock said: Apparently Thelev did.
Shras said: You suggest a plot. How could it profit us to harm the captain?
Spock said: I do not know. There is no logic in Thelev's attack upon the captain. There is no logic in Gav's murder.
Shras said: Perhaps you should forget logic and devote yourself to motivations of passion or gain. Those are reasons for murder.
Scene: Spock's quarters.
The doorbell rings impatiently.
Spock said: Come in.
Amanda said: Spock, you must turn command over to somebody else.
Spock said: Mother, when I was commissioned, I took an oath to carry out responsibilities which were clearly and exactly specified.
Amanda said: Any competent officer can command this ship. Only you can give your father the blood transfusions that he needs to live.
Spock said: Any competent officer can command this ship under normal circumstances. The circumstances are not normal. We're carrying over one hundred valuable Federation passengers. We're being pursued by an alien ship. We're subject to possible attack. There has been murder and attempted murder on board. I cannot dismiss my duties.
Amanda said: Duty? Your duty is to your father.
Spock said: I know, but this must take precedence. If I could give the transfusion without loss of time or efficiency, I would. Sarek understands my reason.
Amanda said: Well, I don't. It's not human. That's not a dirty word. You're human, too. Let that part of you come through. Your father's dying.
Spock said: Mother, how can you have lived on Vulcan so long, married a Vulcan, raised a son on Vulcan, without understanding what it means to be a Vulcan?
Amanda said: If this is what it means, I don't want to know.
Spock said: It means to adopt a philosophy, a way of life, which is logical and beneficial. We cannot disregard that philosophy merely for personal gain, no matter how important that gain might be.
Amanda said: Nothing is as important as your father's life.
Spock said: Can you imagine what my father would say if I were to agree, if I were to give up command of this vessel, jeopardise hundreds of lives, risk interplanetary war, all for the life of one person?
Amanda said: When you were five years old and came home stiff-lipped, anguished, because the other boys tormented you saying that you weren't really Vulcan. I watched you, knowing that inside that the human part of you was crying and I cried, too. There must be some part of me in you, some part that I still can reach. If being Vulcan is more important to you, then you'll stand there speaking rules and regulations from Starfleet and Vulcan philosophy, and let your father die. And I'll hate you for the rest of my life.
Spock said: Mother
Amanda said: Oh, go to him. Now. Please.
Spock said: I cannot.
She slaps his face and storms out.
Scene: Sickbay.
Chapel said: Doctor McCoy?
Kirk said: I'd like to get my hands on the guy with the sledgehammer.
Chapel said: The one who hit you?
Kirk said: No, the one inside my head. How long have I
Tries to sit up and fails.
Mccoy said: Now let that be a lesson to you. Just lie there and be happy you're still alive.
Kirk said: How's Sarek?
Mccoy said: Not good. If I could only operate.
Kirk said: What's stopping you? I thought you were all ready.
Mccoy said: I was. When you became injured, Spock assumed command. He's going to stay there until you're back on your feet, even if it costs Sarek his life. Regulations.
Kirk said: I can't damn him for his loyalty, for doing his duty, but I'm not going to let him commit patricide.
Mccoy said: Jim, if you stand, you could start to bleed again.
Kirk said: Bones, Sarek will die without that operation, and you can't operate without transfusions from Spock. I'll convince Spock I'm all right and order him to report here. As soon as he leaves the bridge, I'll turn command over to Scotty and report to my quarters. Will that fill your prescription?
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Captain?
Kirk said: I'll take over, Mister Spock. You report to Sickbay with Doctor McCoy.
Spock said: Captain, are you quite all right?
Mccoy said: I've certified him physically fit, Mister Spock. Now since I have an operation to perform and both of us are required
Kirk said: Get out, Spock. Chekov, what's the status of the intruder?
Chekov said: No change, sir. Maintaining its distance.
Kirk said: Any further transmissions, Lieutenant?
Uhura said: None, sir.
The turbolift doors close on Spock and McCoy.
Kirk said: Call Mister Scott to the bridge.
Chekov said: Captain, the alien vessel is moving closer.
Kirk said: Belay that order. I'll stay here.
Uhura said: Captain, I'm picking up the alien signal again, but it's coming from inside the Enterprise.
Kirk said: Specific origin?
Uhura said: From the brig, sir.
Kirk said: Security? Security to the brig. Search the prisoner immediately.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: Readings, Nurse.
Chapel said: Mister Spock's blood reproduction rate is up over two hundred percent. Sarek's heartbeat has risen to three hundred and twenty four. Blood pressure ninety over forty, dropping.
Mccoy said: I wish I knew whether that was good or bad. Initiate sterile field.
Chapel said: Mister Spock.
Spock is starting to get up.
Mccoy said: Where do you think you're going?
Spock said: I must see the captain.
Mccoy said: My patients don't walk out in the middle of an operation.
Spock said: The alien ship. I've just realised that if their power utilisation curve is not the norm, it should be possible to identify them this way. Very important.
Chapel gives him a hypo to put him to sleep.
Mccoy said: So is your father's life.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Joseph said: Security here. We had to stun the Andorian. He had some sort of transceiver. It was hidden in his antenna.
Chekov said: Captain, the alien ship has changed course and speed. Moving directly toward us at warp eight.
Kirk said: Bring the prisoner to the bridge. Deflectors on. Red Alert. Phasers stand by to fire on my order.
Chekov said: Aye, sir. Shields on. Phasers manned and ready, sir.
Kirk said: Chekov, take over Spock's scanners.
Chekov said: Aye, sir.
The little light flashes past and the Enterprise rocks.
Kirk said: Target, Mister Chekov.
Chekov said: Moving away. Turning now. He's coming around again.
Kirk said: Fire as he passes, Ensign.
Chekov said: A clean miss, sir.
Kirk said: Report on his weaponry, Mister Chekov.
Chekov said: Sensors record standard phasers, sir.
Kirk said: Standard phasers. Good. They may have more speed, but they're not giants.
Uhura said: Captain, the intercoms are jammed. All the ambassadors are asking what's going on.
Kirk said: Tell them to take a good guess, but clear that board, Lieutenant.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Chekov said: He's coming around again.
Another hit and jolt.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: One more like that, and I'm going to lose both these men.
Spock is awake again.
Scene: Bridge.
Another attack.
Chekov said: Fire control locked into the computers, Captain.
Kirk said: On my order, fire photon torpedoes two, four and six. Widest possible scatter.
Chekov said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Fire.
Chekov said: Full spread missed, sir. They're moving too fast for us.
Scene: Sickbay.
Chapel said: Doctor, his heart's stopped.
Mccoy said: Cardio-stimulate.
Another jolt.
Chapel said: The systems are off.
Mccoy said: Then get me that old portable cardio-stimulator.
She fetches a hand-sized device from a trolley.
Mccoy said: Call engineering and have sickbay systems put on priority.
Scene: Bridge.
Chekov said: Number four shield has buckled, sir.
Kirk said: Auxiliary power.
Chekov said: Switching over. Shields firming up. Number four is still weak, sir. If they hit us there again, it'll go altogether.
Sickbay gets its power back.
Thelev is brought to the Bridge.
Kirk said: Your friends out there are good. They'll have to destroy this ship to win.
Thelev said: That was intended from the beginning, Captain.
Kirk said: You're not Andorian. Who are you?
Uhura said: Damage reports coming in, Captain. Every deck.
Kirk said: Damage control procedures, all decks. That ship out there has phasers. At least our weapons are alike.
Chekov said: Number two shield is gone.
Kirk said: Engineering, this is the Captain. Cut power on port side except for phaser banks. At my signal, cut starboard power. Kirk out. Who are you?
Thelev said: Find your own answers, Captain. You haven't long to live.
Kirk said: You're a spy, surgically altered to pass as an Andorian. Planted in the ambassador's party to use terror and murder to disrupt us and prepare for this attack.
Thelev said: Speculation, Captain.
Kirk said: Engineering, cut power on starboard side. Maintain until further orders. Chekov.
In the darkened ship, Chekov takes back his usual station.
Thelev said: What are you doing?
Kirk said: You speculate.
Chekov said: We're starting to drift, sir. Shall I hold her on course?
Kirk said: No. Stand by your phasers, Mister Chekov.
Chekov said: Aye, sir. Phasers standing by. He's just hovering out there, sir.
Kirk said: Looking us over. We're dead as far as he knows.
Thelev said: You're baiting him. You're trying to lure him in.
Chekov said: Here he comes. Range decreasing. Speed dropping close to sublight.
Kirk said: Hold your fire, Mister Chekov.
Chekov said: Phasers locked on target. Range closing. Seventy five thousand kilometres.
Kirk said: Fire.
There's a satisfying flare on the viewscreen.
Chekov said: Got him!
Kirk said: Secure from general quarters. Lieutenant, open the hailing frequency. If they wish to surrender
A very big flare makes everyone shield their eyes.
Thelev said: They could not surrender, Captain. They had orders to self-destruct.
While in Sickbay, Sarek's vital signs are strengthening.
Kirk said: Lieutenant, relay to Starfleet command. Tell them we have a prisoner.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Thelev said: Only temporarily, Captain. You see, I had orders to self-destruct, too. Slow poison. Quite painless, actually, but there's no known antidote. I anticipate another ten minutes of life.
Kirk said: Take him to Sickbay.
Thelev said: I seem to have miscalculated.
He dies with the security guards holding his arms.
Kirk said: So did they. Mister Chekov, take over.
Scene: Sickbay.
Kirk said: Bones?
Mccoy said: Are you quite through shaking the ship around?
Kirk said: Spock, Sarek how are they?
Mccoy said: I don't mind telling you, you sure make it difficult for a surgeon trying
Kirk said: Bones!
Amanda said: Captain, come in.
They go through to the ward.
Mccoy said: That pig-headed Vulcan stamina. I couldn't have pulled them through without it.
Kirk said: Some doctors have all the luck.
Spock said: Captain, I believe you'll find the alien
Kirk said: We damaged their ship. They destroyed themselves to avoid capture. Bones, Thelev's body will be brought to your lab. I want an autopsy performed as soon as possible.
Spock said: I think you'll find he's an Orion, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Orion?
Spock said: Intelligence reports that Orion smugglers have been raiding the Coridan system.
Kirk said: But what would they gain by an attack on Starfleet?
Sarek said: Mutual suspicion and interplanetary war.
Kirk said: Yes, of course. With Orion carefully neutral, they'd clean up supplying dilithium to both sides and continue to raid Coridan.
Spock said: The thing that confused me was the power utilisation curve. It made them seem more powerful than a starship or anything known to us. That ship was constructed for a suicide mission. Since they never intended to return to their home base, they could use one hundred percent power on their attacks. The thing I don't understand is why I didn't think of it earlier.
Kirk said: You might have had something else on your mind.
Spock said: That hardly seems likely.
Kirk said: No, but thank you anyway.
Amanda said: And you, Sarek. Would you also say thank you to your son?
Sarek said: I don't understand.
Amanda said: For saving your life.
Sarek said: Spock acted in the only logical manner open to him. One does not thank logic, Amanda.
Amanda said: Logic, logic! I'm sick to death of logic. Do you want to know how I feel about your logic?
Spock said: Emotional, isn't she?
Sarek said: She has always been that way.
Spock said: Indeed? Why did you marry her?
Sarek said: At the time, it seemed the logical thing to do.
Kirk said: Bones. (starts to collapse.) No, no, I'm all right
McCoy helps him onto a bed.
Mccoy said: If you keep arguing with your kindly family doctor, you're going to spend your next ten days right here. If you co-operate, you'll be out in two.
Spock said: Doctor, I'll return to my station now.
Mccoy said: You are at your station, Mister Spock.
Kirk said: Doctor McCoy, I believe you're enjoying all this.
Spock said: Indeed, Captain. I've never seen him look so happy.
Mccoy said: Shut up. (to Kirk) Shh. Shh! (to camera) Well, what do you know? I finally got the last word.