A Private Little War
Stardate: 4211.4
Original Airdate: 2 Feb, 1968
Scene: Planet surface.
Doctor McCoy is sampling the local vegetation when his communicator beeps.
Mccoy said: Yes, Jim.
Kirk said: How much longer, McCoy?
Mccoy said: Oh, about another thirty minutes. I've come across some most interesting organic compounds. Hey, Starfleet was right.
Scene: Rocky outcrop.
Kirk is also on the planet.
Mccoy said: These roots and soil cultures can be a medical treasure house. Any problems there?
Kirk said: No sign of the inhabitants so far. Kirk out.
Spock said: Large prints. The ape-like carnivore in the reports?
Kirk said: Yes, the mugato. No problem, though. Those prints are several days old. They seldom stay in one place.
Spock said: Aside from that, you say it's a Garden of Eden?
Kirk said: Or so it seemed to the brash young Lieutenant Kirk on his first planet survey.
Spock said: Class M in all respects. Quite Earth-like.
Kirk said: Except these people stayed in their Garden of Eden. Bows and arrows for hunting, but absolutely no fighting among themselves. Remarkably peaceful and tranquil.
Voice said: Ho! Take cover here!
Kirk and Spock dash off to investigate, and see three dark-haired locals laying an ambush, armed with long-barreled guns.
Spock said: Bows and arrows, Captain?
Kirk said: Villagers with flintlocks? That's impossible. They hadn't progressed nearly that far.
Spock said: Captain, look.
A group of blond hunters is approaching. They do have bows and arrows.
Kirk said: One of those men walking into ambush is Tyree. The friend I lived with here. (He draws his phaser.)
Spock said: Captain, use of our phasers is expressly forbidden.
So instead Kirk throws a rock which startles a villager into firing his weapon early.
Tyree said: Villagers!
There's a chase, hunters after the villagers, and the villagers pursuing Kirk and Spock. A shot is fired, which McCoy hears.
Scene: Planet surface.
Mccoy said: Enterprise, alert! Stand by to beam up landing party.
Kirk and Spock come running, then Spock gets shot in the back.
Kirk said: Spock? Your phaser. (it is missing, so Kirk prepares to use his to defend his friend.)
Spock said: No, Captain. I can travel.
They join McCoy.
Kirk said: Beam us up, quickly.
Mccoy said: Now, Scotty. Have medics stand by.
They beam out just before the villagers arrive.
Scene: Transporter room.
Scott said: What happened, Captain?
Kirk said: Lead projectile. Primitive firearm.
M'Benga said: (an African doctor, to Nurse Chapel) Vitalizer B.;
Mccoy said: Pressure packet. Lucky his heart's where his liver should be, or he'd be dead now.
M'Benga said: Not good, sir.
Mccoy said: Coranalin.
Kirk said: Bones, can you save him?
Uhura said: All decks, Red Alert! Battle stations, battle stations! Go to Red Alert!
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Uhura said: Uhura, sir. We have a Klingon vessel on our screen.
Kirk said: On my way. Scotty. Bones?
Mccoy said: I don't know yet, Jim.
Scene: Bridge.
Chekov said: Captain, we're holding the planet between us and the Klingons. I don't think they've spotted us.
Uhura said: Make that definite, sir. They're sending a routine message to their home base with no mention of us.
Kirk said: Good. Go to Yellow Alert.
Uhura said: Yellow Alert. All stations go to Yellow Alert.
Kirk said: Do you think you can keep us out of their sight, Chekov?
Chekov said: I can try, Captain.
Uhura said: Message to Starbase, sir?
Kirk said: No point in giving ourselves away, Lieutenant. Not until we find out what's going on.
Scott said: We can hide for a while, sir, but we may have to go out of orbit to keep it up for long.
Kirk said: Kirk to Sickbay.
Mccoy said: McCoy here. I'll call you soon as I know anything. Sickbay out.
Kirk said: So, they've broken the treaty.
Scott said: Not necessarily, Captain. They have as much right to scientific missions here as we have.
Kirk said: Research is not the Klingon way.
Scott said: True, but since this is a hands-off planet, how are you going to prove they're doing otherwise?
Kirk said: When I left there thirteen years ago, those villagers had barely learned to forge iron. Spock was shot with a flintlock. How many centuries between those two developments?
Uhura said: On Earth, about twelve, sir.
Scott said: On the other hand, a flintlock would be the first firearm the inhabitants would normally develop.
Kirk said: Yes, I'm aware of that, Mister Scott.;
Chekov said: And, sir, the fact Earth took twelve centuries doesn't mean they had to.
Uhura said: We've seen different development at rates on different planets.
Scott said: And were the Klingons behind it, why didn't they give them breechloaders?
Chekov said: Or machine guns?
Uhura said: Or old-style hand lasers?
Kirk said: I did not invite a debate. I'm sorry. I'm worried about Spock and concerned about what's happened to something I once knew down there. You have the conn, Scotty. I'll be in Sickbay.
Scene: Sickbay.
M'Benga said: We've no replacements for the damaged organs, sir. If he's going to live, his Vulcan physiology will have to do it for him.
Mccoy said: Agreed. Sterilite off.
Chapel said: Yes, sir.
Mccoy said: He'll live or die now, Jim. I don't know which. Doctor M'Benga interned on a Vulcan ward. He couldn't be in better hands.
Kirk said: Then you and I are transporting down.
Mccoy said: I can't leave Spock at this time.
Kirk said: You just indicated you could. There are Klingons here. If their mission is a legitimate research interest in the planet's organic potential, then you're the one man who can tell me.
Mccoy said: And if that's not it?
Kirk said: Then I need help. Advice I can trust as much as Spock's.
Mccoy said: I appreciate the compliment, Jim, but
Kirk said: Bones, I'm as worried about Spock as you are, but if the Klingons are breaking the treaty it could be interstellar war. Kirk to Bridge.
Scott said: Bridge, Scott here.
Kirk said: McCoy and I are transporting back down. Inform ship's stores that we'll need native costumes.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Captain, we may have to break out of orbit any minute to keep out of their sight. We'd be out of communicator range with you.
Scene: Sickbay.
Kirk said: I understand. We'll arrange a rendezvous schedule. Kirk out.
Captain's log, stardate 4211.4. Keeping our presence here secret is an enormous tactical advantage, therefore I cannot risk contact with Starfleet Command. I must take action on my own judgment. I've elected to violate orders and make contact with planet inhabitants.
Scene: Planet surface.
McCoy and Kirk are dressed in the leathers of hill people.
Kirk said: Perfect. Tyree's camp's a quarter of a mile away.
Mccoy said: Want to think about it again, Jim? Starfleet's orders about this planet state no interference with
Kirk said: No interference with normal social development. I'm not only aware of it, it was my survey thirteen years ago that recommended it.
Mccoy said: I read it. Inhabitants superior in many ways to humans. Left alone, they undoubtedly someday will develop a remarkably advanced and peaceful culture.
Kirk said: Indeed. And I intend to see that they have that chance. You coming with me?
Mccoy said: Do I have a choice?
So they make their way down the slope, and Kirk gets pounced on by a big white ape with a large horn on it's head and spines down it's back. It easily throws off McCoy as it concentrates on it's first victim, biting him, Throwing rocks makes it stand up, then McCoy vaporizes it with his phaser.
Kirk said: (shaking) Contact ship. Took full poison. Fangs.
Mccoy said: Enterprise, McCoy. Emergency. Come in. Enterprise, come in. McCoy! Emergency!
Kirk said: They left. Out of orbit.
Mccoy said: (giving an injection) Jim, there is no antitoxin for this poison. I can only keep you alive a few hours with this.
Kirk said: Tyree. Some of his men. Cure.
Three men are standing in front of them.
Mccoy said: Are you hill people? Do you know a hunter named Tyree? A mugato attacked him. He's James Kirk. He's a friend of Tyree's. Blast it! Do something! He's dying!
Kirk passes out.
{Tyree's camp]
Yutan said: Take him to the cave. I bring Tyree.
Scene: Cave.
Mccoy said: Medical log, stardate 4211.8. Kirk is right about the people here. Despite their fear and our strangeness, they're compassionate and gentle. I've learned the hunter Tyree is now their leader. He is expected to return shortly with his wife, who they say knows how to cure this poison. My problem. The captain is in deep shock. I must keep him warm and alive until then.
McCoy wraps plenty of furs around Kirk.
Mccoy said: You and your Garden of Eden.
Scene: Hillside.
A man and a dark-haired woman come out of hiding after two armed villagers pass.
Nona said: We must obtain the same firesticks, husband. You could be killing them instead. We could take their houses, their goods.
Tyree said: Nona, enough. In time the villagers will return to their ways of friendship.
Nona said: In time? They kill your people! I am a Kahn-ut-tu woman. In all this land, how many are there? Men seek us because through us they become great leaders.
Tyree said: I took you because you cast a spell upon me.
Nona said: And I have spells that help me keep you. Remember this leaf? The night we camped by the water?
Tyree said: The night of madness.
Nona said: Oh, Tyree, did you really hate that madness?
She rubs the leaf down his arm, scratching him and leaving pieces attached to his skin.
Tyree said: No, Nona. No! It brought up evil beasts from my soul.
Nona said: Only one lovely beast, Tyree, my huge, angry man.
They kiss passionately.
Yutan said: Forgive me.;
Nona said: What is it?
Yutan said: There are strangers in our camp. One has taken the mugato bite. He dies.
Nona said: Strangers?
Yutan said: It is said the dying one is a friend of Tyree, from long ago.
Nona said: That one. Bring him when his head clears.
Scene: Cave.
Kirk is shivering under his furs, so McCoy uses his phaser to heat a rock.
Scene: Tyree's camp.
Nona said: The stranger, where is he?
She is pointed to the cave.
Scene: Cave.
McCoy is heating another couple of rocks when she arrives. The sight of such a powerful weapon stops her from going in.
Scene: Tyree's camp.
Tyree arrives, running.
Tyree said: Nona, where's Kirk? The cave?
Nona said: Tyree, you wish me to save him?
Tyree said: You must. He is the one I told you of. The friend of my younger days.
Nona said: My remedies require I know what kind of man he is. All that is known of him.
Tyree said: I gave him my promise of silence. He was made my brother.
Nona said: And I am your wife, his sister. I promise silence also.
Tyree said: Nona
Nona said: Quickly! Or he dies.
Scene: Sickbay.
The indicators over Spock's bed are very low. Chapel is holding his hand, but puts it down quickly when the door opens.
M'Benga said: Don't let these low panel readings bother you. I've seen this before in Vulcans. It's their way of concentrating all their strength, blood, and antibodies onto the injured organs. A form of self-induced hypnosis.
Chapel said: You mean he's conscious?
M'Benga said: Well, in a sense. He knows we're here and what we're saying, but he can't afford to take his mind from the tissue he's fighting to heal. I suppose he even knows you were holding his hand. (leaves)
Chapel said: A good nurse always treats her patients that way. It proves she's interested.
Scene: Cave.
Tyree said: I am Tyree.
Nona said: And I'm Tyree's woman.
Tyree said: It is Kirk. She will cure him.
Nona takes a strange object out of her bag. It is moving slightly.
Mccoy said: What's that?
Nona said: A mahko root.
Mccoy said: A plant? It moves.
Nona said: For those who know where to find it, how to use it, how to pick it.
She holds out her hand, and Tyree cuts it with his knife. Then she starts writhing for a few moments before putting the mahko root onto Kirk's wound and holding it there with her bleeding hand.
Nona said: Take this of my soul. This of my soul. Thine own. Into thine. Deeply. Together. Your pain is mine. All mine. Your soul and mine, together! Return. It is past. Return. Return!
Tyree beats a drum then she collapses, exhausted, across Kirk's bare chest. The root is shriveled. Kirk wakes up.
Kirk said: Bones. I had the strangest dream.
Mccoy said: How do you feel, Jim?
Kirk said: Tired. Very tired. You did a fine job, Bones. I think I'll sleep.
McCoy removes the root. The would has healed completely.
Mccoy said: I want to thank you for saving his life. (Nona's hand is healed too) I would like to learn more about this.
Nona said: Our blood has passed through the mahko root together. Our souls have been together. He is mine now.
Tyree said: She must sleep also.
Mccoy said: He is hers?
Tyree said: When a man and woman are joined in this manner, he can refuse her no wish. But it is only legend.
Later, McCoy wakes to find Jim is out of bed. He finds him by Nona's bed.
Mccoy said: Jim.
Kirk said: Bones. What are you doing here? (their voices wake Tyree) Tyree. My old friend.
Tyree said: Yes, James! James, it's good to see you.
Kirk said: What am I doing here? A mugato bite! I remember. I told him to take me to Tyree's camp. I knew you'd find a kahn-ut-tu to cure me. The kahn-ut-tu is the local witch people here. They've studied (Nona gets up and stands in front of him) They've studied the roots and the herbs.
Nona said: I am a kahn-ut-tu, Captain. I cured you.
Tyree said: My wife, Nona.
Kirk said: Yes, of course. I should've guessed. Congratulations. Tyree, we must talk now. The villagers, their new weapons. I want to hear all about that. We must make plans.
Nona said: Good. It is past time to plan.
Tyree said: Much has happened since you left, James. Come, we'll speak of it.
Nona said: And of things to be done.
Tyree said: Come. (the men leave, but he stops Nona from following.) We will speak of it.
Scene: Sickbay.
The markers on the indicator board above Spock's head are going up and down like crazy.
Chapel said: The readings are beginning to fluctuate.
M'Benga said: Just as they should. This is Doctor M'Benga. There will be someone with you constantly now. When the time comes, I'll be called. (to Chapel) As soon as he shows any signs of consciousness, call me immediately.
Chapel said: Yes, Doctor.
M'Benga said: After you've called me, if he speaks, do whatever he says.
Chapel said: Do whatever he says?
M'Benga said: Yes. That's clear enough, isn't it?
Scene: Cave.
Tyree said: The firesticks first appeared nearly a year ago. Since that time, many of my people have died.
Kirk said: You say they make the firesticks themselves? How can you be sure?
Tyree said: I've looked into their village. I have seen it being done.
Mccoy said: Have you seen any strangers among the villagers?
Tyree said: Strangers? No.
Kirk said: Can you take us to their village while it's still dark?
Tyree said: Yes, but the mugatos travel at night also. You killed one. Its mate will not be far.
Kirk said: (showing his phaser) You've seen how these work.
Nona said: I've seen them also, and I know you have many ways to make your friend Tyree a man of great importance.
Mccoy said: Many ways? What else does she know about us?
Nona said: Tyree has told me much of you. Do not blame him. It was the price for saving your life.
Kirk said: We're simply strangers from
Nona said: From one of the lights in the sky, and you have ways as far above firesticks as the sky above our world.
Tyree said: You will not speak of this to others.
Nona said: I will not if I am made to understand. Teach me. There's an old custom among my people. When a woman saves a man's life, he is grateful.
Kirk said: I am grateful.
Mccoy said: A splendid custom if not carried to extremes.
Kirk said: We once were as you are, Spears, arrows. There came a time when our weapons grew faster than our wisdom, and we almost destroyed ourselves. We learned from this to make a rule during all our travels, Never to cause the same to happen to other worlds. Just as a man must grow in his own way and in his own time.
Nona said: Some men never grow.
Kirk said: Perhaps not as fast or in the way another thinks he should. But we're wise enough to know that we are wise enough not to interfere with the way of a man or another world.
Nona said: You must let the villagers destroy us? You will not help your friend and brother kill them instead?
Tyree said: No! I said I will not kill!
Nona said: We must fight or die! Is dying better? You would let him die when you have weapons to make him powerful and safe? Then he has the wrong friends. And I have the wrong husband. (leaves)
Tyree said: You will help in ways she does not understand. I have faith in our friendship, James. Come, before we lose the darkness. (leaves)
Mccoy said: What's bothering you, Jim? If we find the Klingons have helped the villagers, there's certainly something we can do.
Kirk said: That's what's bothering me. The something we may have to do.
Scene: Village.
Smooth walled buildings with tiled roofs, shrubs in terracotta jars. An armed guard patrols in front of one with a verandah.
Tyree said: The guard. We must wait.
Kirk said: Tyree, supposing you had to fight? What then?
Mccoy said: Jim, this man believes in the same thing we believe in. That killing is stupid and useless.
Kirk said: Tyree?
Tyree said: Now. Come.
Kirk sneaks around behind the guard and puts a sleeper hold on him.
Kirk said: The gun. Ammunition. Doctor.
McCoy and Kirk run off while Tyree picks up the flintlock.
Scene: Building.
A Klingon is sitting behind a simple wooden table.
Krell said: You are late, my friend Apella.
Apella said: A quarrel by my people. A division of some skins and a hill woman taken this morning. It's hard to divide one woman.
Krell said: Give her to the man who killed the most of her people. The others will see the profit in bravery. I'll make a Klingon of you yet.
He hands over another flintlock.
Your next improvement. Notice what we've done to the striker. See how it holds the priming powder more securely? Fewer misfires. When I return, we will give you other improvements. A rifled barrel.
Apella said: What?
Krell said: A way to shoot further and straighter.
Scene: Village.
Mccoy said: Jim. Coal for forge, sulphur for gun powder.
Kirk said: Let's take a look inside.
Scene: Forge.
A big bellows runs straight into the base of the fire.
Kirk said: Well, here's your forge. People's exhibit number one. A chrome steel drill point.
Mccoy said: (scanning) This pig iron is almost carbon-free. That village furnace certainly didn't produce it. People's exhibit number two. Cold-rolled gun barrel rod fashioned to look homemade. You were right about the Klingons, Jim. KIRK: Make recorder and scanner tapes of everything.
Mccoy said: Right. It's a pity we can't include a live Klingon. That'd just about wrap it
He is interrupted by voices from outside. They hide.
Apella said: Is it difficult to cut grooves into the barrels?
Krell said: It's quite simple. I'll show you.
Apella and Krell enter the forge.
Apella said: I thought my people would grow tired of killing. But you were right. They see that it is easier than trading and it has pleasures. I feel it myself. Like the hunt, but with richer rewards.
Krell said: You will be rich one day, Apella, beyond your dreams. The leader of a whole world. A governor in the Klingon Empire.
Then McCoy's scanner whistles. So Kirk jumps the Klingon while McCoy hits Apella with the steel rod he took.
Kirk said: Bones!
They open the door, but there are two more armed villagers outside. Nevertheless, they knock them out and get away.
Scene: Village.
Krell said: Guards! Intruders!
Kirk said: (to Tyree) Move! Fast!
Shots are fired as the three run for their lives out of the village.
Scene: Sickbay.
Spock starts gasping for air.
Spock said: Nurse.
Chapel said: Yes?
Spock said: Hit me. The pain will help me to consciousness. Hit me.
Chapel said: Hit you? No! I can't
Spock said: Blast you, strike me! If I don't regain consciousness soon, it may be too late. Hit me. (she slaps his face) Harder!
She does, with tears in her eyes.
Spock said: Again. Continue. The pain will help me to consciousness.
Scott said: (running in and dragging her away) What are you doing, woman?
Chapel said: Leave me alone!
Scott said: Have you gone daft?
Chapel said: Mister Spock needs me! Let go!
M'Benga rushes in and helps Spock to sit up before giving him some pretty vicious hits across the face. Scott stares, astonished. Finally Spock grabs M'Benga's arm.
Spock said: That will be quite enough. Thank you, doctor.;
M'Benga said: Please, release her.
Scott said: What's this all about?
Spock said: She was doing as I requested, Mister Scott. A Vulcan form of self-healing.
M'Benga said: As you saw, they must wait until the last possible moment then fight their way back to consciousness.
Chapel said: Here, let me help you, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Thank you, nurse. I'm quite fully recovered.
Chapel said: Yes, I see you are.
Scene: Tyree's camp.
Just slightly away from the tents, Kirk is giving a rifle shooting lesson.
Kirk said: Men, this is the pan. This is the hammer. The hammer striking the pan causes a spark, ignites the powder, and fires the flintlock. Now aim it as I showed you. Hold your breath and squeeze the trigger gently. (Tyree shoots the clay pot target) Well done. Very, very, very good.
Mccoy said: Jim, I want to talk to you.
Kirk said: Not here, Bones. In the cave. Yutan, your turn.
Scene: Cave.
Mccoy said: Do I have to say it? It's not bad enough there's one serpent in Eden teaching one side about gun powder. You want to make sure they all know about it!
Kirk said: Exactly. Each side receives the same knowledge and the same type of firearm.
Mccoy said: Have you gone out of your mind? Yes, maybe you have. Tyree's wife, she said there was something in that root. She said now you can refuse her nothing.
Kirk said: Superstition.
Mccoy said: Is it a coincidence this is exactly what she wants?
Kirk said: Is it? She wants superior weapons. That's the one thing neither side can have. Bones. Bones, the normal development of this planet was the status quo between the hill people and the villagers. The Klingons changed that with the flintlocks. If this planet is to develop the way it should, we must equalize both sides again.
Mccoy said: Jim, that means you're condemning this whole planet to a war that may never end. It could go on for year after year, massacre after massacre.
Kirk said: All right, Doctor! All right. Say I'm wrong. Say I'm drugged. Say the woman drugged me. What is your sober, sensible solution to all this?
Mccoy said: I don't have a solution. But furnishing them firearms is certainly not the answer.
Kirk said: Bones, do you remember the twentieth century brush wars on the Asian continent? Two giant powers involved, much like the Klingons and ourselves. Neither side felt could pull out.
Mccoy said: Yes, I remember. It went on bloody year after bloody year.
Kirk said: What would you have suggested, that one side arm its friends with an overpowering weapon? Mankind would never have lived to travel space if they had. No. The only solution is what happened back then. Balance of power.
Mccoy said: And if the Klingons give their side even more?
Kirk said: Then we arm our side with exactly that much more. A balance of power. The trickiest, most difficult, dirtiest game of them all, but the only one that preserves both sides.
Mccoy said: And what about your friend Tyree? Will he understand this balance of power?
Kirk said: No. Probably not. But I'm going to have to try and make him understand. I never had a more difficult task.
Mccoy said: Well, Jim, here's another morsel of agony for you. Since Tyree won't fight, he will be one of the first to die.
Kirk said: Well, war isn't a good life, but it's life. His wife is the only way to reach him. If I tell her we're going to supply guns, maybe she'll convince him.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Position, Mister Scott?
Scott said: Entering distant orbit, sir. Approaching rendezvous time.
Spock said: The Klingons?
Chekov said: They haven't spotted us yet, sir. Looks like they're beaming someone aboard.
Spock said: Stand by to signal the captain.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Scene: Countryside.
(Kirk finds Nona near a stream which is running over a rock. She has been bathing. KIRK: Nona. Pardon me.
Nona said: You are here because I wished you here.
Kirk said: Oh? I thought it was my idea.
Nona said: Yes. They always believe they come of free will. Tyree thought the same when I cast my first spell on him.
Kirk said: Nona
Nona said: Can you smell this fragrance? Some find it pleasing.
It is the same planet that she used on Tyree.
Kirk said: I'd like to talk to you.
Nona said: Again. Some find it soothing. Yes.
Kirk said: I would like
Nona said: Happy. Yes. You feel good.
Tyree overhears her, and he is carrying a gun.
Kirk said: I feel dizzy. Yes, you are lovely. You're beautiful.
Tyree takes aim.
Nona said: Kiss me.
Kirk gives in, but Tyree cannot bring himself to squeeze the trigger. He throws the gun down in disgust and runs. Nona and Kirk are interrupted by the shriek of a mugato. Kirk is so besotted that Nona has difficulty getting out of his embrace and trying to escape. Eventually Kirk thinks to draw his phaser and kill the attacking creature. She decides to hit him over the head to get the phaser for herself.
Scene: Tyree's camp.
Tyree returns.
Mccoy said: Where's Captain Kirk? Tyree, the firestick. Where is it?
Tyree said: There! I left it there.
Mccoy said: That's a fine thing to leave lying around. Show us where it is.
Scene: Countryside.
Nona has just left when McCoy, Tyree and Yutan arrive. Yutan picks up the rifle.
Tyree said: I do not want it.
Mccoy said: Jim? Jim. Who hit you?
Kirk said: Nona.
Scene: Hillside.
Nona greets a band of villagers.
Nona said: I bring you victory for Apella!
) Man 1 said: Tyree's woman.
Man 2 said: She's a Kahn-ut-tu.
Man 1 said: We won't trust this division to Apella.
Nona said: Take me to him. He will have the strength to use this new weapon.
Villager number one grabs Nona, and she slaps him off.
Nona said: Touch me again, and this small box will kill you.
(They don't believe her, and all four men struggle with her.
Scene: Countryside.
McCoy is about to give Kirk an injection to go with the headache pills.
Kirk said: No, no. I'm all right. My phaser. She took it.
Scene: Hillside.
Nona said: This weapon I bring you is far greater than your firesticks.
Still, all the men want is to have their wicked way with her, and she screams. Kirk, Tyree and McCoy come running over the brow.
Tyree said: Nona!
Man 4 said: Hill people!
Man 1 said: It's a trap. The woman's tricked us.
He stabs her. Another man shoots McCoy in the arm. Yutan fires back, then there is a good old-fashioned hand-to-hand struggle. Tyree smashes one man's head repeatedly with a large rock, until Kirk stops him. He goes to his wife.
Mccoy said: She's dead.
Tyree picks up a rifle.
Tyree said: I want more of these, Kirk. Many more! Yutan, two of those who killed my wife have escaped. Track them down. I will kill them.
McCoy finds the phaser in the dirt nearby.
Mccoy said: Here.
Kirk said: Tomorrow in the palm of her hands.
Mccoy said: Well, you got what you wanted.
Kirk said: Not what I wanted, Bones. What had to be. (McCoy hands him a communicator from his bag) Kirk here.
SPOCK [OC] Spock, Captain. I trust all has gone well.
Mccoy said: Spock, are you alive?
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: An illogical question, Doctor, since obviously you are hearing my voice.
Scene: Hillside.
Mccoy said: Well, I don't know why I was worried. You can't kill a computer.
Kirk said: Spock, ask Scotty how long it would take him to reproduce a hundred flintlocks.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: (losing his grin) I didn't get that exactly, Captain. A hundred what?
Scene: Hillside.
Kirk said: A hundred serpents. Serpents for the Garden of Eden. We're very tired, Mister Spock. Beam us up home.