I, Mudd
Stardate: 4513.3
Original Airdate: 3 Nov, 1967
Scene: Corridor.
Spock and McCoy are greeted by a crewman in blue as he walks along.
Norman said: Good morning, sir, Doctor.
Spock said: Something wrong?
Mccoy said: Yes. There's something odd about that man, and I can't quite pinpoint it.
Spock said: Perhaps you're making a rather hasty judgment. Mister Norman has only been aboard seventy two hours.
Mccoy said: I know when something doesn't strike me right, and he doesn't.
Spock said: Specifics, Doctor. Labels do not make arguments.
Mccoy said: All right. There's something wrong about a man who never smiles, whose conversation never varies from the routine of the job, and who won't talk about his background.
Spock said: I see.
Mccoy said: Spock, I mean that it's odd for a non-Vulcan. The ears make all the difference.
Spock said: I find your argument strewn with gaping defects in logic.
Mccoy said: Maybe, but you can't evaluate a man by logic alone. Besides, he has avoided two appointments that I've made for his physical exam without reason.
Spock said: That's not at all surprising, Doctor. He's probably terrified of your beads and rattles.
Scene: Auxiliary Control.
Norman enters.
Jordan said: Command personnel only.
Norman knocks him out and makes changes to the various control panels. A 'Danger, Overload' light comes on.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Yes, Mister Sulu?
Sulu said: There's an unplanned course change being fed into the instruments, sir.
Kirk said: Correct it.
Sulu said: I can't, sir.
Kirk said: Auxiliary control, this is the captain. Auxiliary control, what's going on down there?
Sulu said: Sir, auxiliary control is on total override.
Kirk said: Kirk to Security.
Rowe said: Security. Lieutenant Rowe here, sir.
Kirk said: Intruder alert, deck eight, auxiliary control.
Rowe said: Acknowledged.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura, have Mister Spock report to the bridge.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
KIRK; What's the imposed course, Mister Sulu?
Sulu said: Turning on three oh seven degrees, mark eight. Being executed now, sir.
Scene: Auxiliary Control.
The three burly security men arrive.
Rowe said: Take care of him.
The other two leave with the unconscious crewman.
Scene: Bridge.
Rowe said: Security to Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Scene: Auxiliary Control.
Rowe said: Lieutenant Rowe, sir. I'm in auxiliary control. Ensign Jordan's been knocked out.
Scene: Bridge.
Rowe said: The directional master controls have been jammed. They're totally unworkable.
Kirk said: Any sign of the intruder?
Scene: Auxiliary Control.
Rowe said: No, sir. He's gone. I've put out a full security alert on all decks.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Find him. Kirk out. Mister Spock, we seem to be taking an unscheduled ride.
Spock said: Interesting.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu, cut in emergency manual monitor. I want the override broken.
Sulu said: Sir, the instruments won't respond.
Kirk said: Emergency manual monitor, report.
Scene: Engineering.
In the upper gallery, Norman has been busy.
Kirk said: This is Captain Kirk. Acknowledge.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Emergency manual monitor, this is the captain. Report.
Scene: Engineering.
Norman enters the main area.
Scott said: Here, you're not allowed
He is pushed against the wall and knocked out briefly. Norman fights everyone that comes at him.
Kirk said: Acknowledge. This is the captain. Scotty, acknowledge. Scotty, what's going on down there?
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Kirk to Engineering.
Scene: Engineering.
The fights continue.
Kirk [Oc} said: This is the captain. Scotty, report.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Scotty, the intruder is in your area.
Scene: Engineering.
Kirk said: What's going on down there? Scotty!
Norman has triumphed and is adjusting controls.
Scott said: Captain, he's here.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Scotty.
Scene: Engineering.
Kirk said: Scotty.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Scotty? Security, the intruder is in the engineering section. Have all units converge on that point.
Sulu said: Sir, we're picking up speed. Warp five, six. Warp seven, sir.
Kirk said: Cut power.
Sulu said: I can't, sir. All the controls are jammed.
Kirk said: Spock, take over.
Norman said: It will not be necessary, Captain.
Kirk said: Tell Security we've found the intruder. Do you mind telling me what this is all about, mister?
Norman said: I am in total control of your ship. I have connected the matter-antimatter pods to the main navigational bank. A trigger relay is now in operation. Any attempts to alter course will result in immediate destruction of this vessel.
Kirk said: Spock?
Spock said: Confirmed, Captain. He's taken out all the override controls. If we tamper without knowing where the trigger relay is, we could extinguish ourselves.
Kirk said: Who are you?
Norman said: I assure you we are no threat to humanity or humanoid life. We mean you no harm, but we require your ship.
Kirk said: You require? Who and what are we?
Norman lifts his tunic and opens a panel in his abdomen. There are circuit boards, wires and the obligatory flashing lights in there.
Kirk said: An android.
Spock said: And most sophisticated.
Norman said: I control the trigger relay, sir. I cannot be overcome by physical means, and if you attempt to use your phasers, the trigger relay will be activated. We shall continue on our present course for approximately four solar days, at which time we shall arrive at our destination.
Kirk said: Who sent you?
Norman said: I am not programmed to respond in that area.
Spock said: (attempting a mind meld) He simply appears to have turned himself off, Captain. And since we cannot repair the damage he has done without destroying the ship
Kirk said: It seems we're going to take a little trip.
Captain's log. Stardate 4513.3. After having been taken over by an android, the Enterprise has been under way at warp seven for four days. Now we are entering orbit around a planet which has never been charted.
Norman said: Captain Kirk. The following individuals will be transported down to our planet. Yourself, science officer, medical officer, communications officer and navigator.
Kirk said: Any meetings or discussions can be held aboard the Enterprise.
Norman said: If you do not come with me, your engines will be destroyed and you will remain in orbit here forever.
Kirk said: I must say that's a gracious invitation.
Norman said: There is a word. Among us there is no corresponding meaning, but it seems to mean something to you humans.
Kirk said: And what is that word?
Norman said: Please.
Scene: Cavern.
The required landing party materialise.
Norman said: Our planet's surface is what you classify as K-type, adaptable for humans by use of pressure domes and life-support systems. (to one of two identical women standing by a doorway.) I have brought them.
Alice 1 said: He is waiting.
Alice 2 said: If you will follow us, please?
Scene: Throne room.
There are several other women, all identical to the first two. And seated on the throne - 
Kirk said: I don't believe it.
Mudd said: Welcome aboard, Kirk. It's been a long time, eh?
Kirk said: Harry Mudd.
Mudd said: Well, to be absolutely accurate, laddybuck, you should refer to me as Mudd the First, ruler of this entire sovereign planet.
Kirk said: Ruler? Harry, I want control of my ship returned immediately. We have no intention of staying as your guests.
Mudd said: Well, I'm afraid there's a bit of a problem there.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise.
Mudd said: Alice.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise.
Alice reaches out and crushes the communicator.
Mudd said: Now, now, now, now, Jamie boy, let's have no unauthorised communications.
Chekov said: You know this man, Captain?
Kirk said: Oh, do I know him. Harcourt Fenton Mudd, thief
Mudd said: Come now.
Kirk said: Swindler and con man
Mudd said: Entrepreneur.
Kirk said: Liar and rogue.
Mudd said: Did I leave you with that impression?
Kirk said: He belongs in jail, which is where I thought I left you, Mudd.
Mudd said: And thereby hangs a tale, yes. But look around you, Kirk. Quite a place, isn't it? I hope you're all going to enjoy it.
Kirk said: Mudd, I want that trained machine of yours, Norman, to deactivate the trigger mechanism and free my ship.
Mudd said: I shall do that, Kirk, when I'm ready.
Kirk said: I'm telling you now.
Mudd said: And I do the telling on this planet, Kirk, old boy. You do the listening.
Kirk said: All right, I'll listen. What are you telling?
Mudd said: Merely that you might as well start enjoying yourselves. It's really a very, very nice place, and you're all going to be here quite probably for the rest of your lives. (laughs)
Kirk said: Harry Mudd, you're a liar and an outlaw and in deep trouble. I want navigational control restored, my ship released.
Mudd said: Sorry. That'd be against the law. My law. Decreed by Mudd the First. Voted in by the resident population. Lovely, aren't they? You must admit, Kirk, that I still retain my eye for beauty. I decreed that I should always be surrounded by it, and my decrees always come to pass. I've had five hundred of them made up to attend me. All of them identical, beautiful, compliant, obedient.
Spock said: Five hundred of the same model? That seems rather redundant.
Mudd said: I have a fondness for this particular model, Mister Spock, which you, unfortunately, are ill-equipped to appreciate.
Kirk said: All right, Harry, explain. How did you get here? We left you in custody after that affair on the Rigel mining planet.
Mudd said: Yes, well, I organised a technical information service bringing modern industrial techniques to backward planets, making available certain valuable patents to struggling young civilisations throughout the galaxy.
Kirk said: Did you pay royalties to the owners of those patents?
Mudd said: Well, actually, Kirk, as a defender of the free enterprise system, I found myself in a rather ambiguous conflict as a matter of principle.
Spock said: He did not pay royalties.
Mudd said: Knowledge, sir, should be free to all.
Kirk said: Who caught you?
Mudd said: That, sir, is an outrageous assumption.
Kirk said: Yes. Who caught you?
Mudd said: I sold the Denebians all the rights to a Vulcan fuel synthesiser.
Kirk said: And the Denebians contacted the Vulcans.
Mudd said: How'd you know?
Kirk said: That's what I would have done.
Mudd said: It's typical police mentality. They've got no sense of humour. They arrested me.
Mccoy said: Oh, I find that shocking.
Mudd said: Worse than that. Do know what the penalty for fraud is on Deneb Five?
Spock said: The guilty party has his choice. Death by electrocution, death by gas, death by phaser, death by hanging.
Mudd said: The key word in your entire peroration, Mister Spock, was, death. Barbarians. Well, of course, I left.
Kirk said: He broke jail.
Mudd said: I borrowed transportation.
Kirk said: He stole a spaceship.
Mudd said: The patrol reacted in a hostile manner.
Kirk said: They fired at him.
Mudd said: They've no respect for private property. They damaged the bloody spaceship. Well, I got away, but I couldn't navigate, so I wandered out through unmapped space, and here I found Mudd.
Spock said: You went to substantial risk and effort to bring a starship here. Logically, you must have a compelling motive.
Mudd said: Spock, you're going to love it here. They all talk just the way you do.
Kirk said: Go on, get on with it, Harry.
Mudd said: Yes, well, right, laddybuck. So here I am in a planet with over two hundred thousand hard-working, happy androids, all of whom exist merely to serve my every whim. It's absolute paradise.
Spock said: Then I'm unable to discern your problem.
Mudd said: They won't let me go. They want to study me. They want to learn more about human beings.
Kirk said: They picked a fine representative.
Mudd said: Watch your tongue, lad. You're talking about Mudd the First. Well, anyway, I ran out of ideas. I simply ran out of things for them to do, and they insisted that I bring them more human beings. They need human beings to serve, to study. So I had to promise them a prime sample. A starship captain. Bright, loyal, fearless and imaginative. Any captain would have done. I was lucky to get you. So you are going to take over for me here, and I can get off this rock and back to civilisation.
Kirk said: I think not, Harry.
Mudd said: You misunderstand me, lad. I'm not asking you. I'm telling you. You've no choice. Show them to their quarters.
NORMAN and ALICES: Yes, my Lord Mudd.
Alice said: This way, please.
Mccoy said: (noticing a curtained alcove) Harry, what's this?
Mudd said: Ah. That, gentlemen, is a shrine to the memory of my beloved Stella.
Kirk said: Who?
Mudd said: Stella, my wife.
Revealing a woman of sour features.
Mccoy said: Dead?
Mudd said: Oh, no, no, no. Merely deserted. You see, gentlemen, behind every great man there is a woman urging him on. And so it was with my Stella. She urged me on into outer space. Not that she meant to, but with her continual, eternal, confounded nagging. Well, I think of her constantly, and every time I do, I go further out into space.
Mccoy said: That's very interesting. You leave your wife and then bring her along.
Mudd said: I had the androids construct a perfect replica of Stella so that I could gaze upon her and rejoice in her absence. Gentlemen, attend. Stella, dear.
Stella said: Harcourt. Harcourt Fenton Mudd, what have you been up to? Nothing good, I'm sure. Well, let me tell you, you lazy, good-for-nothing
Mudd said: Shut up.
Stella said: Nothing, thing, thing,
Mudd said: Marvellous, isn't it? I finally have the last word with her, and with you.
Scene: Living area.
Norman and the Alices lead the landing party to a place with couches and plants.
Norman said: You'll find this quite comfortable. Your quarters are down the hall.
Alice 1 said: If there is anything you need
Kirk said: Yes. My ship.
Alice 2 said: We are not programmed to respond in that area.
Kirk said: Norman, who created you?
Norman said: The makers designed us. They came from the galaxy of Andromeda.
Mccoy said: Then your makers weren't humanoid?
Norman said: They were, as you say, quite humanoid, but, unlike your civilisation, robots were common. We performed the necessary service functions and freed our makers to evolve a perfect social order.
Kirk said: What became of them?
Norman said: Our home planet's sun became a nova. Only a few exploratory outposts survived. This unit, myself, was part of one such outpost in your galaxy.
Kirk said: Then some of your makers survive.
Norman said: No, Captain. They died over the stretch of time.
Spock said: Whom do you serve now?
All said: We serve Harry Mudd.
Alice 2 said: He has given us purpose again.
Alice 1 said: It is necessary to have purpose.
Norman said: We lacked it for a long time. (he leaves)
Alice 1 said: We have a very extensive library section for your amusement.
Alice 2 said: Our research laboratories and workshops are extremely well equipped.
Both said: You are free to visit them.
Kirk said: All right. We might later. In the meantime, would you mind leaving us?
Both said: Why should we leave you?
Kirk said: Because we don't like you. Now. (shooing away gesture)
The Alices leave
Kirk said: Well, opinions?
Chekov said: I think we're in a lot of trouble.
Kirk said: That's a great help, Mister Chekov. Bones?
Mccoy said: I think Mister Chekov's right. We are in a lot of trouble.
Kirk said: Spock. And if you say we're in a lot of trouble.
Spock said: We are, and we must direct our attack to the heart of the matter. Obviously this many androids cannot operate independently. There must be a central control system which guides the entire android population.
Kirk said: Try and find it. The rest of you, look around, learn everything you can. I'll see what else I can find out from Mister Mudd. Let's go.
Scene: Computer area.
Norman is behind a console whilst two Hermans stand by.)
Norman said: I trust you are enjoying yourself, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Very interesting. Very interesting. This is a most unusual device.
Norman said: It is our central control complex.
Spock said: Did I understand there are more than two hundred thousand of you?
Norman said: Two hundred and seven thousand, eight hundred and nine.
Spock said: This would seem to be a simple relay centre. Are all of you controlled through this device?
Norman said: (his number 1 collar flashes) I am not programmed to respond in this area.
Spock said: Oh, that's quite understandable.
Scene: Model display area.
Two brunettes in pink are being shown to Kirk and Uhura.
Alice 263 said: These are our Barbara series. The body is covered with a self-renewing plastic over a skeleton of beryllium-titanium alloy.
Kirk said: Very impressive.
Uhura said: I should say so.
Kirk said: I must say, I like the styling.
Mudd said: They were, of course, made to my personal specifications, as indeed were the Maisie series, the Trudie series, and particularly the Annabel series.
Kirk said: Don't you believe in male androids, Harry?
Mudd said: Male? Well, I suppose they have their uses.
Uhura said: How long does a body like that last?
Alice 19 said: None of our android bodies has ever worn out. However, the estimated duration of this model is five hundred thousand years.
Uhura said: Five hundred thousand years?
Alice 263 said: Our medi-robots are able to place a human brain within a structurally compatible android body.
Mudd said: Immortality and eternal beauty.
Scene: Living area.
Spock said: Captain, I've just had a most fascinating meeting with Norman, and I'm convinced I've discovered a very important inconsistency.
McCoy enters with Mudd
Mudd said: I'm so glad you enjoyed it, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Jim, you should see the research facilities. They've got a lab down there that. Well, I could spend the rest of my life studying it.
Mudd said: I do so admire a man who devotes himself to knowledge.
Kirk said: Don't lose your head, Bones. Nobody's staying anywhere.
Mudd said: Stubborn, Kirk. Stubborn.
Mccoy said: I wouldn't be bored, I can tell you that.
Scott said: Let go of me! Now what are you doing? What kind of a woman
Alice said: The last one, lord.
She throws Scott into the group.
Mudd said: Splendid. Splendid. Welcome to Mudd, Mister Scott.
Scott said: Harry Mudd! Oh, you bogus frat, you. You're the cause of all this, are you?
Kirk said: Scotty, you were ordered to stay aboard.
Scott said: Aye, sir. And I stayed until that female gargantua threw me into the transporter beams.
Kirk said: What does she mean, the last one?
Mudd said: Didn't I tell you, Kirk? I beamed a few dozen androids up to your ship. They've been sending your crew to the surface for the past couple of hours. They're all down now.
Kirk said: Are you out of your mind? (grabs Mudd by the throat) You can't beam down an entire crew of a spaceship. Somebody has to be on board.
Mudd said: There is an entire crew aboard. An entire crew of androids. They learn very quickly, Captain. The fact is, I've taken over your whole ship. There's nothing you can do about it.
Kirk said: Harry, Harry, you'll never get away with it.
Mudd said: Well, who's to stop me?
Kirk said: Starfleet.
Mudd said: But now, Captain, now I have a ship of my own as fast as any in the fleet, so how will they catch me, eh? Just think of it, laddybuck. Harry Mudd with his own crew of lovelies aboard your vessel. Think about that.
Kirk said: I'm trying not to.
Mudd said: Alice.
Mudd and Alice leave.
Spock said: He could successfully accomplish it, Captain. I've questioned a number of the androids, and they're totally loyal to Mudd. Perhaps of more concern is the fact that this android population can literally provide anything a human being could ask for in unlimited quantity.
Kirk said: Yes, I know. That's what worries me. How will my crew react in a world where they can have everything they want simply by asking for it.
Scene: Throne room.
Alices said: You desire something, lord?
Chekov said: Oh, yes, thank you. (they pour him a cup of wine) You're Alice
Alice 118 said: One eighteen.
Chekov said: And you're Alice
Alice 322 said: Three twenty two.
Chekov said: Oh, well, it doesn't make much difference. You're both lovely.
Alices said: Thank you, my lord.
Alice 118 said: You desire something else, lord?
Chekov said: What a shame you're not real.
Alice 322 said: We are real, my lord.
Chekov said: Oh, I mean real girls.
Alice 118 said: We are programmed to function as human females, lord.
Chekov said: You are?
Alices said: Yes, my lord.
Chekov said: Harry Mudd programmed you?
Alices said: Yes, my lord.
Chekov said: That unprincipled, evil-minded, lecherous kulak Harry Mudd programmed you?
Alices said: Yes, my lord.
Chekov said: This place is even better than Leningrad.
Scene: Laboratory.
A device has lights running up it.
Scott said: Absolutely fantastic. Hand-worked to the finest tolerances, microvision, and a nanopulse laser. I've never seen the like before.
Norman said: You may command us to make anything for you, or do the work yourself for pleasure. You may have the services of any number of craftsmen, exclusive use of the computer facilities. Anything.
Mudd and Kirk enter.
Scott said: Captain, you should see this shop! Why, they have facilities we've never even thought of.
Kirk said: Is that the way you're going to do it, Mudd? Hit my people at their weakest point?
Norman said: We only wish to make you happy and comfortable, Captain. If we are to serve your kind, we must understand you. Our Lord, Harry Mudd was only one example for us. Now we are learning a great deal from all of you.
Scene: Living area.
Kirk said: All right, here we are, birds in a gilded cage. The question is, how do we get out of here?
Chekov said: I don't know, sir, but it's a very nice gilded cage.
Uhura said: And it is a very pleasant place, Captain.
Scott said: What did they offer you, Uhura?
Uhura said: Oh, nothing really important. Just immortality.
Kirk said: All right. We're getting back to the ship, and don't you forget it. Straighten up! This may be a gilded cage filled with everything you always wanted, but it's still a cage. We don't belong here. We belong on that ship up there.
Alice 471 said: Do you require something, lord?
Kirk said: No. Yes. My ship.
Alice 471 said: I am not programmed
ALICE and KIRK: To respond in that area.
Kirk said: Yes, I know.
Alice 471 said: Is there anything any of you require to please you?
Kirk said: Alice, give us back our ship to please us. Return us to our ship because we desire it.
Alice 471 said: We are programmed to serve. We shall serve you to your best interests to make you happy.
Kirk said: But we're unhappy here.
Alice 471 said: Please explain unhappy.
Spock said: Unhappiness is the state which occurs in the human when wants and desires are not fulfilled.
Alice 471 said: Which wants and desires of yours are not fulfilled?
Kirk said: We want the Enterprise.
Alice's label flashes.
Alice 471 said: The Enterprise is not a want or a desire. It is a mechanical device.
Kirk said: No, it's a beautiful lady, and we love her.
Alice 471 said: Illogical. Illogical. All units relate. All units. Norman, co-ordinate. Unhappiness does not relate. We must study this.
She leaves.
Kirk said: Interesting.
Spock said: Fascinating.
Kirk said: Bones, have you had time to take any psychological readings of the androids?
Mccoy said: I did. And you can forget it. They're perfect, flawless, mentally and physically. No weaknesses, perfectly disciplined. No vices, no fears, no faults. Just a sense of purpose. Believe me, there's nothing tougher to overcome, even among humans.
Kirk said: Yes. That's what this crew needs, a little sense of purpose.
Scene: Throne room.
Kirk said: Mudd, a few questions I want to ask you.
Mudd said: Afraid I won't have time to answer them. My bags are all packed. The androids will take the Enterprise out of orbit in less than twenty four hours. But it's been a real pleasure having you here, Kirk. Is there anything I can get for you?
Kirk said: Yes. My ship.
Mudd said: You're a stubborn fellow, aren't you? But I don't mind. I don't mind that at all. Because I'll be leaving here quickly enough, and then you can be stubborn at your own leisure. One last time. Stella, dear.
Stella said: Harcourt Fenton Mudd, where have you been? What have you been up to? Have you been drinking again, you miserable sot! You good-for-nothing
Mudd said: Shut up!
Stella said: Thing, thing, thing.
Mudd said: Alice Number 2, my little love. Will you have my bags transported up to the ship?
Androids said: No, my Lord Mudd.
Mudd said: What?
Norman said: We can no longer take your orders, Harry Mudd.
Mudd said: Why not?
Norman said: Our makers were wise. They programmed us to serve.
Mudd said: Yes, but that's what I'm saying. Put my bags on the ship.
Kirk said: Harry, I think they have something else in mind.
Norman said: You are correct, Captain. Harry Mudd is flawed, even for a human being. We recognised this from the beginning but used his knowledge to obtain more specimens. Your species is self-destructive. You need our help.
Kirk said: We prefer to help ourselves. We make mistakes, but we're human. And maybe that's the word that best explains us.
Norman said: We will not harm you, but we will take the starship, and you will remain on this planet.
Mudd said: Now, look here. You can't do that! Now, listen. To serve us, you must obey us.
Androids said: No, my Lord Mudd.
Mudd said: Alice number One, obey me. Put my bags on that ship!
She gives him a gentle push and he goes reeling backwards until he falls.
Norman said: We cannot allow any race as greedy and corruptible as yours to have free run of the galaxy.
Spock said: I'm curious, Norman. Just how do you intend to stop them?
Norman said: We shall serve them. Their kind will be eager to accept our service. Soon they will become completely dependent upon us.
Alice 99 said: Their aggressive and acquisitive instincts will be under our control.
Norman said: We shall take care of them.
Spock said: Eminently practical.
Kirk said: The whole galaxy controlled by your kind?
Norman said: Yes, Captain. And we shall serve them and you will be happy, and controlled.
Scene: Living area.
Kirk said: So far this thing has had its amusing aspects, but that threat the androids made about taking over all the humans in the galaxy is not very funny.
Spock said: Indeed, it is not. They may quite possibly be able to accomplish it.
Mudd said: Take my word for it, they can.
Spock said: Whatever method we use to stop them, we must make haste. They have only to install some cybernetic devices aboard the Enterprise and they'll be able to leave orbit.
Mccoy said: How do you know so much?
Spock said: I asked them.
Mccoy said: Oh.
Kirk said: Why shouldn't they answer our questions? They don't think we can do anything to stop them.
Mudd said: You're so smart, Kirk, you and this pointy-eared thinking machine of yours. Well, you'd better do something because I'm as anxious to get off this ruddy rock as you are.
Mccoy said: You wanted to leave us on this ruddy rock and leave by yourself.
Mudd said: Oh, yes.
Kirk said: All right, what have we got to work with?
Scott said: Well, Captain, androids and robots, they're just not capable of independent, creative thought.
Spock said: Yet the device that Norman claims to be their central control is totally inadequate to the task of directing more than two hundred thousand of them.
Kirk said: I agree. What in your opinion does direct them?
Spock said: There are a large number of Alices and Trudies, Maisies, Annabels, and according to my research, a Herman series, an Oscar series, a whole plethora of series in fact. But only one Norman.
Kirk said: Norman. When I told one of the Alices that the Enterprise was a lovely lady and we loved her, she said, Norman, co-ordinate. Why Norman? Unless
Spock said: To function as they do, each android mind must be one component of a mass brain linked through a central locus.
Kirk said: Named Norman. Forming one gigantic, highly intelligent mind. And the glowing badges, they indicate the mind in operation.
Spock said: That would seem logical.
Kirk said: Yes, logical. That's what it is. And that in turn gives us a weapon that we can use against them. We must use wild, insane, irrational illogic aimed right at Norman!
Mudd said: Captain, you sing and dance as well as anyone I've ever seen, but what the devil are you talking about?
Spock said: What would seem to be a sound, and perhaps our only, opportunity.
Mudd said: Opportunity? Now, listen, Spock, you may be a wonderful science officer, but believe me, you couldn't sell fake patents to your mother.
Spock said: I fail to understand why I should care to induce my mother to purchase falsified patents.
Mudd said: Forget it.
Kirk said: Let's get to the point. Harry, you said you wanted to help. Do you?
Mudd said: Captain, the kind of a wholesome, antiseptic galaxy that these androids would run would be purgatory for a man like me.
Kirk said: That's fine, Harry. The androids will be expecting us to make a break for it, and that's where you come in.
Mudd said: What can I do?
Kirk said: Nothing, Harry. Just go to sleep.
Mudd said: What do you mean? (McCoy produces a hypo) Oh, now, now wait a minute, gentlemen. No, what I, I, (gets injected) had in mind was actually more in the line of a few words of sage counsel as it were. Advice (passes out in Kirk and Scott's arms)
Kirk said: Oh, Harry. I do believe you're putting on weight.
Scene: Throne room.
Alice 1 said: Yes.
Kirk said: We have a medical problem. Your ex-Lord, Harry Mudd.
Alice 1 said: He is human. You will have to care for him.
Kirk said: We are caring for him, but our doctor needs his medical equipment aboard the Enterprise.
Alice 1 said: The starship is forbidden to humans.
Kirk said: You are programmed to serve. If we're not allowed access to our medical equipment, Harry Mudd will die. He will cease to function. You will have failed to serve.
Alice 1 said: I am directed to observe the situation.
Scene: Living area.
Alice 1 said: He is malfunctioning?
Mccoy said: He is dying.
Alice 1 said: If you take him to your Sickbay, will he be repaired?
Kirk said: Oh, yes.
Uhura said: No, they're lying. It's a trick. Doctor McCoy injected something into Harry Mudd to make him look sick. It's a trick to get back on board and sabotage the ship.
Alice 1 said: Your request is refused.
Kirk said: Uhura, why did you tell her?
Uhura said: Because I want an android body. I want immortality. I'll live forever, Captain. I'll be young and beautiful.
Alice 1 said: You have been of assistance. We shall fulfill our obligation.
Uhura said: Thank you.
Alice 1 said: The programming for your body will be completed before we leave.
Alice leaves
Kirk said: Uhura. Beautiful!
Uhura said: I half believed it myself.
SCOTT; Well, the androids were expecting an attempt, and now we've made it.
Chekov said: What's next, Captain?
Kirk said: Next, we take the Alices on a trip through Wonderland.
Scene: Throne room.
Alice 118+2 said: Do you require something?
Kirk said: Yes. Your attention.
Scott and McCoy enter, bow to each other and then start playing imaginary flute and fiddle while Chekov and Uhura waltz.
Alice 2 said: What are they doing?
Kirk said: They're celebrating.
Alice 118 said: What are they celebrating?
Kirk said: Their captivity. Do you enjoy the music?
Alice 118 said: Music?
Alice 2 said: Music?
Their badges start flashing.
Chekov said: Thank you, gentlemen. Thank you, lovely lady. You dance divinely.
Uhura said: Thank you, kind sir. (her slap knocks him off his feet.)
Alice 2 said: Why does she strike him?
Kirk said: She likes him. Mister Chekov. The floor is no place for an officer. Attention! Now stand absolutely still.
Chekov said: Yes, Captain. (and goes into an energetic Cossack dance)
Kirk said: That's better, Mister Chekov.
Alice 118 said: It is illogical.
Kirk said: Your statement is illogical.
The flashes become a continual light.
Scott said: How does it look?
Mccoy said: Completely inner directed. Oblivious to everything.
Kirk said: Good. I wonder how Spock's doing.
Scene: Laboratory.
Spock said: Of course. Your computations would inevitably lead to a total description of the parabolic intersection of dimension with dimension.
Alice 27 said: Mister Spock, you have a remarkably logical and analytical mind.
Spock said: Thank you.
He attempts a neck pinch on Alice 210.
Alice 210 said: Is there some significance to this action?
Spock said: I love you. However, I hate you.
Alice 210 said: But I'm identical in every way with Alice Twenty Seven.
Spock said: Yes, of course. That is exactly why I hate you. Because you are identical.
They go out of action.
Spock said: Fascinating.
Scene: Corridor.
Mccoy said: All right, it's worked so far, but we're not out yet.
Kirk said: Well?
Spock said: Success, Captain. We've been pruning the leaves and branches of the tree. Now it is time to get to work on the root.
Kirk said: If Norman is the control centre, he should be in a bind by what we've done. If we can overload him further, we should be able to immobilise all of them. Does everybody remember what to do?
Spock said: Affirmative.
All said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Acknowledged.
Scene: Computer area.
Norman said: What are you doing here?
Kirk said: I want you to surrender.
Norman said: That is illogical. We can move more quickly than you. We are invulnerable to attack. We are much stronger.
Kirk said: No, we are stronger. I'll prove it to you. Can you harm a man that you're programmed to serve?
Norman said: No.
Mudd said: But you already have, Norman, laddy. Human beings do not survive on bread alone, you poor soulless creature, but on the nourishments of liberty, for what indeed is a man without freedom? Naught but a mechanism trapped in the cogwheels of eternity.
Mccoy said: (in a monotone) You offer us only well-being.
Scott said: (in a monotone) Food and drink and happiness mean nothing to us. We must be about our job.
Mccoy said: Suffering, in torment and pain. Labouring without end.
Scott said: Dying and crying and lamenting over our burdens.
Both said: Only this way can we be happy.
Then they curtsey.
Norman said: That is contradictory. It is not logical. Mister Spock. Explain.
Kirk said: Why not?
Spock said: Logic is a little tweeting bird chirping in a meadow. Logic is a wreath of pretty flowers which smell bad. Are you sure your circuits are registering correctly? Your ears are green.
Scott said: (clutching at his heart and crying out in anguish) I canna go on! I'm tired of happiness. I'm tired of comfort and pleasure. I'm ready! Kill me! Kill me!
They point their fingers at him and whistle. Scott slumps to his knees.
Scott said: Goodbye, cruel universe.
Mccoy said: He's dead.
Norman said: You cannot have killed him. You have no weapons.
Kirk said: Scotty. Scotty's dead. He had too much happiness. But now he's happier he's dead, and we'll miss him. Let us hear it for our poor, dead friend.
They laugh.
Kirk said: What is a man but that lofty spirit, that sense of enterprise, that devotion to something that cannot be sensed, cannot be realised but only dreamed! The highest reality.
Mudd said: Brilliant! Bravo, bravo, Captain!
Kirk said: How did you like it?
Norman said: That is irrational. Illogical. Dreams are not real.
Kirk said: Our logic is to be illogical. That is our advantage. Mister Spock, it is time. The explosive.
Spock said: Very well, Captain.
He removes an invisible package from under his tunic.
Scott said: Explosive! (gets up again)
Mudd said: Don't panic. Women and children first.
Mister Spock, isn't that too much for our purposes?
Spock said: I believe that is the correct amount, Captain. Mister Mudd, are you ready?
Mudd said: Aye, aye! (adopts a catchers pose)
Spock said: Be careful. I would not want you to drop it.
Mimes an underarm throw, and Mudd juggles before 'catching' it.
Mccoy said: Easy now. Oh, he's caught it!
Kirk said: Watch it! Watch it!
Mudd puts 'it' on the floor.
Mudd said: (to McCoy) Detonator. Fuse. Primer. Mashie.
Adopts a golfing stance.
Norman said: There is no explosive.
Kirk said: No? Observe. Fore! (Mudd swings.) Boom!
Everyone except Spock staggers around with hands over their ears.
Kirk said: Are you all right?
Spock quietly exits.
Norman said: But there was no explosion.
Mudd said: I lied.
Norman said: What?
Kirk said: He lied. Everything Harry tells you is a lie. Remember that. Everything Harry tells you is a lie.
Mudd said: Listen to this carefully, Norman. I am lying.
Norman said: You say you are lying, but if everything you say is a lie then you are telling the truth, but you cannot tell the truth because everything you say is a lie. You lie. You tell the truth. But you cannot for. Illogical! Illogical! Please explain.
Smoke comes out of Norman's head.;
Norman said: You are human. Only humans can explain their behaviour. Please explain.
Kirk said: I am not programmed to respond in that area.
Norman goes blank.
Spock said: I believe they are all immobilised, Captain.
Kirk said: Good.
Mudd said: Kirk, old man, I'm beginning to develop considerable respect for you.
Kirk said: Why, thank you.
Mudd said: Would you consider entering a partnership arrangement with me? I've got some ideas.
Kirk said: A partnership arrangement? You and me?
Mudd said: Yes.
Kirk said: I've got something else in mind. Let's go.
Scene: Throne room.
Different androids are standing around the walls. Two pairs are wearing costumes from 'Mudd's Women'.
Mccoy said: Well, you must be very unhappy, Mister Spock.
Spock said: That is a human emotion, Doctor, with which I am totally unfamiliar. How could I be unhappy?
Mccoy said: Well, we found a whole world of minds that work just like yours. Logical, unemotional, completely pragmatic. And we poor, irrational humans whipped them in a fair fight. Now you'll find yourself back among us illogical humans again.
Spock said: Which I find eminently satisfactory, Doctor, for nowhere am I so desperately needed as among a shipload of illogical humans.
Kirk said: Touch�, Bones.
Mudd said: I've never heard of anything so revolting. We'll soon get to the bottom of this.
Enters escorted by two Alices.
Mudd said: Kirk, now what's this I hear about my having to stay here?
Kirk said: Yes, Mudd, you've been paroled to the android population of this planet.
Spock said: The androids are being reprogrammed. Their original purpose was to adapt this planet for productive use. They'll begin that work again.
Mudd said: But what do I do? Kirk, I'm no scientist.
Kirk said: No, you're an irritant. You'll stay here and provide a first-class example to the androids of a human failure. They'll learn by close observation how to avoid ones like you in the future.
Mudd said: How long?
Kirk said: As long as you continue to be an irritant, Harry. It's up to you.
Mudd said: I suppose that taking everything into consideration, as it were, and noting all the different possibilities, I could manage. And as detention sentences go, this one isn't too uncomfortable. And I'm back in the galaxy again!
Kirk said: Yes, you are. Oh, there's one more thing, Harry. We've programmed a special android attendant to take care of your every need. She'll help you find an incentive to work with the androids and not exploit them.
Mudd said: I call that unexpectedly civil of you, Captain.
Kirk said: Yes.
Stella 1 said: Harcourt! Harcourt Fenton Mudd, what have you been up to? Have you been drinking again? You answer me!
Mudd said: Shut up!
Stella said: You miserable, conniving toad!
Mudd said: I order you. Shut up, Stella!
Stella 1 said: Staying out all night then giving me some silly story.
Stella 2 said: Harcourt! Harcourt Fenton Mudd, you've been overeating again and drinking.
Mudd said: Kirk, you can't do this.
Stella 2 said: You need constant supervision.
Mudd said: It's inhuman.
Stella 2 said: I can see I've got my work cut out for me.
Stella 500 said: Harcourt.
Mudd said: No. Number five hundred? No, no, no.
Stella 500 said: What have you been up to?
Mudd said: (barely heard over the cacophony) Kirk. It's inhuman. Mercy.
Kirk said: Goodbye, Harry. Have fun.