Obsession
Stardate: 3619.2
Original Airdate: 15 Dec, 1967
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk and Spock are standing by a large purple boulder.
Spock said: Our scanner survey was correct, Captain. There it is. Pure tritanium.
Kirk said: Fantastic. 20 times as hard as diamond.
Spock said: Twenty one point four times as hard, to be exact.
Kirk said: Thank you, Mister Spock. (into communicator) Scotty, you can mark this vein as confirmed. Inform Starfleet I recommend that they dispatch a survey vessel immediately.
Unseen by the landing party, a cloud of smoke is coming out of another rock and heading for them.
Scott said: Acknowledged, Captain. They'll send one fast enough for this rich a find.
Spock said: We won't be able to break it, Captain. I'll phaser off a specimen.
He does so, and the smoke retreats.
Kirk said: Lesley.
He is handed a pair of tongs to pick up the sample with.
Kirk said: Do you smell that? A sweet odour like honey. It was years ago, on another planet. A thing with a an odour like that.
Spock said: We're in the growing season in this hemisphere of this planet. There are doubtless many pollen aromas.
Kirk said: Rizzo.
Rizzo said: Yes, sir?
Kirk said: Take your men. Make a swing around our perimeter. Scan for dikironium in the atmosphere. Set your phasers on disrupter-B. If you see any gaseous cloud, fire immediately. You're on Red Alert. Make a sweep.
Scott said: Ready to beam back aboard, Captain?
Kirk said: Negative, Scotty. We're checking something out.
Scott said: The USS Yorktown is expecting to rendezvous with us in less than eight hours, Captain. That doesn't give us much time.
Kirk said: Acknowledged. Continue standing by. Kirk out.
Spock said: Captain, dikironium exists only in laboratory experiments.
Kirk said: It's gone. I could have been wrong. The last time I caught an odour like that was eleven years ago.
Scene: Clearing.
The three red-shirts have run into a clearing.
Rizzo said: Seemed to read dikironium for a minute, and then I lost it. It's almost like something out there knows I'm scanning it. It kind of keeps changing itself into something different. That isn't possible. Nothing can do that.
All together now - It's Behind You! The other two security men fall to the ground, choking in the cloud. Rizzo can't get a clear shot.
Rizzo said: Captain?
Scene: Boulder.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Scene: Clearing.
Rizzo said: Captain.
Scene: Boulder.
Rizzo said: There's a strange cloud, sir.
Scene: Clearing.
It reaches him and he starts choking too
Rizzo said: Cloud, cloud.
Scene: Boulder.
Kirk said: Fire into it immediately!
Rizzo said: Help me. Help!
Scene: Clearing.
But by the time they get there, the cloud has gone.
Kirk said: Spock. Dead. And you'll find every red corpuscle gone from their body.
Spock said: Rizzo's alive, barely.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise. Scotty, lock in on us. Medical emergency.
Spock said: You think you know what it was, Captain?
Kirk said: Something that can't possibly exist, but it does.
Captain's log, stardate 3619.2. With the mysterious death of two crewmen, all personnel on the planet have been evacuated back to the ship.
Scene: McCoy's office.
Chapel said: Autopsy report, Doctor.
Kirk said: How's Ensign Rizzo?
Chapel said: Still unconscious, sir.
Mccoy said: Transfusions?
Chapel said: Continuing as rapidly as possible. His blood count is still sixty percent less than normal. (leaves)
Kirk said: Kirk to bridge.
Spock said: Spock here. Ready to leave orbit, Captain.
Kirk said: Hold your position.
Scott said: Cutting in if I may, Captain. The USS Yorktown is expecting to rendezvous with us in less than seven hours.
Kirk said: Then you'll inform them that we might be a little late.
Mccoy said: Jim, the Yorktown's ship surgeon will want to know how late. Those vaccines he's transferring to us are highly perishable.
Spock said: Spock again, Captain. Those medical supplies are badly needed on planet Theta Seven. They are expecting us to get them there on time.
Kirk said: Gentlemen, we are remaining in orbit until I find out more about those deaths, on my responsibility. I am perfectly aware that it might cost lives on Theta Seven. Kirk out. Autopsy report.
Mccoy said: You saw their colour. There wasn't a red corpuscle left in their bodies.
Kirk said: Marks, cuts, incisions of any kind?
Mccoy said: Not a one. What happened is medically impossible.
Kirk said: I suggest you look at the record tapes of past similar occurrences. You'll find the USS Farragut lists casualties eleven years ago from exactly the same impossible causes.
Mccoy said: Thank you, Captain. I'll check those tapes immediately.
Kirk said: First, can you bring Ensign Rizzo to consciousness for a moment?
Mccoy said: Yes, but it
Kirk said: Will it hurt him if you do so?
Mccoy said: In his present condition, I don't think it would make much difference.
Kirk said: Then do so.
Scene: Sickbay.
Chapel said: Transfusion completed, sir. His pulse and respiration are still far below normal.
Mccoy said: Give him one cc of cordazine, nurse.
Chapel said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Rizzo. This is the captain. Can you hear me? Do you remember what happened to you?
Rizzo said: Remember. I'm cold. I'm so cold.
Kirk said: You were attacked by something. When it happened, did you notice an odour of any kind? Rizzo. Rizzo! Do you remember a sickly sweet odour? Did you smell it?
Rizzo said: Yes. Yes. A smell. A strange smell. It was like being smothered in honey.
Kirk said: Did you feel a presence, an intelligence?
Rizzo said: It was trying to draw strength from us. I felt it. It was, it was, it was there.
Mccoy said: He's beginning to sleep again. I can't risk another shot.
Kirk said: He's already told me what I wanted to know.
Mccoy said: I wouldn't depend too much what he says in that half-conscious state. He could be dreaming, saying what he thought you wanted to hear.
Kirk said: You check those record tapes. I want your medical analysis as quickly as possible. (leaves)
Chapel said: What's with the captain? I've never seen him like that before.
Mccoy said: I intend to find out. I'll be in the medical record library.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Oh, Captain. Subspace message from Starfleet. They're inquiring
Kirk said: Not now. Have the security duty officer report to me immediately.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Spock?
Spock said: Continuing scanning. Still no readings of life forms on the planet.
Kirk said: Let's assume that it's something so completely different that our sensors wouldn't identify it as a life form.
Spock said: You mentioned dikironium, Captain.
Kirk said: Suppose it was composed of that rare element. A strange, gaseous creature.
Spock said: I've scanned for that element, Captain. There's no trace of dikironium on the planet surface or in the atmosphere.
Kirk said: Suppose it camouflaged itself. Let's assume that it's intelligent, that it knows we're looking for it.
Spock said: To hide from a sensor scan, it would have to be able to change its molecular structure, like gold changing itself to lead or wood changing itself to ivory.
Kirk said: You've just suggested something that never occurred to me. It may provide some answers to a tape record which I think you'll find Doctor McCoy is looking at this very moment.
Spock said: Chekov, take over on scanner.
As Spock steps into the turbolift, Garrovick steps out onto the bridge.
Garrovick said: Ensign Garrovick reporting, sir.
Kirk said: Are you the new security officer?
Garrovick said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Was your father
Garrovick said: Yes, sir, but I don't expect any special treatment on that account.
Kirk said: You'll get none aboard this ship, Mister.
Garrovick said: Yes, sir.
Uhura said: Captain, I have a report on Ensign Rizzo. He's dead, sir.
Kirk said: You knew Rizzo?
Garrovick said: Yes, sir. We were good friends, graduated the Academy together.
KIRK; You'll get a crack at what killed him. Interested?
Garrovick said: Yes, I am, sir.
Kirk said: I want four men armed with phaser two set for disrupter effect. Join me in the transporter room in five minutes. You'll accompany me to the planet surface.
Garrovick said: Yes, sir.
Scene: Planet surface.
Garrovick said: Reading is changing, sir. KIRK: Spock was right. Notice the molecular shift?;
Garrovick said: Dikironium reading now, sir. Bearing ninety four mark seven, angle of elevation six degrees. Holding steady.
Kirk said: Over that rise. Take two men, circle around to the left. I'll take the other two and go the other way. That creature is dangerous. If you see it, fire full phasers.
Garrovick said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Swensen, Bardoli come with me.
Garrovick and his group go into a clearing, and the cloud emerges. Garrovick fires at it after a slight hesitation.
Kirk said: A phaser! Come on! (arriving at the scene) Garrovick, did you?
But then he sees the other two security men, lying on the ground, skin pale as snow.
Captain's log, stardate 3619.6. One of the men in critical condition, the other is dead. And I, I am now even more convinced that this is not only an intelligent creature, but the same which decimated the crew of the USS Farragut eleven years ago in another part of the galaxy. Both Spock and McCoy are doubtful of this, and I sense they also doubt my decision to stay and fight the thing. Why am I keeping the ship here?
Scene: Briefing room.
Kirk is already there when Spock, McCoy and Garrovick enter.
Kirk said: Mister Garrovick, we've studied your report. Mister Spock, begin.
Spock said: What was the size of the thing you saw, Ensign?
Garrovick said: I'd say it measured from ten to sixty cubic metres, sir. It varied in size, fluctuated as it moved.
Spock said: Composition?
Garrovick said: It was like a, a gaseous cloud. Parts of it I could see through. Other parts were more dense.
Mccoy said: Ensign, did you sense any intelligence in this gaseous cloud?
Garrovick said: Did I what, sir?
Mccoy said: Did you get any subconscious impressions that this was a creature. A living, thinking thing, rather than just a strange cloud of chemical elements?
Garrovick said: No, sir.
Kirk said: But you didn't come to actual contact with it, did you?
Garrovick said: No, sir. I was furthest away from it. It seemed to come out of nowhere, hovered for a moment, then moved toward my men. It was fast, incredibly fast.
Kirk said: Did you say it hovered?
Garrovick said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: You did fire at it, didn't you?
Garrovick said: Yes, sir, I did.
Kirk said: What distance were you from the creature?
Garrovick said: About twenty yards, sir.
Kirk said: You fired at a large, hovering target at that distance and missed?
Garrovick said: Yes. I, er, well, I didn't fire while it was hovering, sir.
Kirk said: You mean you froze?
Garrovick said: No, sir. I didn't exactly freeze.
Kirk said: What exactly were you doing?
Garrovick said: Well, I was startled for a second. And then by the time I fired, the thing was already moving.
Kirk said: Do you have any further information?
Garrovick said: No, sir.
Kirk said: Do you gentlemen have any further questions?
Garrovick said: I only hesitated for a moment, sir. I'm sorry.
Kirk said: Ensign, you're relieved of all duties and confined to quarters until further notice.
Garrovick said: Yes, sir. (leaves)
Mccoy said: You were a little hard on the boy, Jim.
Kirk said: He froze. One man was killed. Another may die.
Spock said: Captain, scientifically
Kirk said: You'll both be filing reports. Make your comments and recommendations then.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Captain, while we're waiting I've taken the liberty of cleaning the radioactive disposal vent on number two impulse engine, but we'll be ready to leave orbit in under half an hour.
Kirk said: We're not leaving orbit, Mister Scott. Not that quickly.
Uhura said: Captain, the Yorktown requesting information on how soon we expect to rendezvous with them.
Kirk said: Thank you.
Scott said: The medicine for Theta Seven colony is not only needed desperately and has limited
Kirk said: I'm aware of the situation, Engineer, and I'm getting a little tired of my senior officers conspiring against me. Forgive me. Perhaps I shouldn't have used the word conspire.
Scott said: Agreed, sir.
Kirk said: Scanner readings?
Chekov said: Nothing, sir. Continuing to scan.
Kirk said: Are you aware it can change its molecular structure?
Chekov said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Are you scanning for any unusual movement?
Chekov said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Any type of gaseous cloud?
Chekov said: We've run a full scanner probe twice. KIRK: Then run it twenty times if that's what it takes!
Scene: McCoy's office.
Spock said: I hope I'm not disturbing you, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Interrupting another autopsy report is no disturbance, Mister Spock. It's a relief.
Spock said: I need your advice.
Mccoy said: Then I need a drink.
Spock said: I do not understand your reasoning.
Mccoy said: You need advice from me? You must be kidding.
Spock said: I do not joke, Doctor. Perhaps I should rephrase my statement. I require an opinion. There are many aspects of human irrationality I do not yet comprehend. obsession, for one. The persistent, single-minded fixation on one idea.
Mccoy said: Jim and his creature?
Spock said: Precisely. Have you studied the incident involving the USS Farragut?
Mccoy said: No. With all these deaths and injuries, I've only had a chance to scan the tapes. There are eight or ten hours of record tape there.
Spock said: Fortunately, I read somewhat faster. In brief, Doctor, nearly half the crew and the captain were annihilated. The captain's name was Garrovick.
Mccoy said: The same as our Ensign.
Spock said: His father. Among the survivors was a young officer on his first deep-space assignment, James T. Kirk. And there is still more. I suggest you study this.
Spock hands over a record tape.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
The Captain is lying on his bed, staring at the ceiling
Kirk said: Personal log, stardate 3620.7. Have I the right to jeopardise my crew, my ship for a feeling I can't even put into words? No man achieves Starfleet command without relying on intuition, but have I made a rational decision? Am I letting the horrors of the past distort my judgment of the present?
Mccoy said: Mind if I come in?
Kirk gets up and goes to his desk.
Kirk said: Kirk to bridge. Scanning report.
Chekov said: Continued scanning, sir. No unusual readings.
Kirk said: Maintain search. Kirk out. It can't have just vanished.
Mccoy said: Sometimes they do, if we're lucky. Monsters come in many forms. You know the greatest monster of them all, Jim? Guilt.
Kirk said: Get to the point.
Mccoy said: Jim, When a young officer is exposed to unknown dangers for the first time, he's under tremendous emotional stress. Now we all know that.
Kirk said: Ensign Garrovick is a ship-command decision. You're straying out of your field, Doctor.
He returns to his bed.
Mccoy said: Am I? I was speaking of Lieutenant James T. Kirk of the starship Farragut. Eleven years ago, you were the young officer at the phaser station when something attacked. According to the tapes, this young Lieutenant Kirk insisted upon blaming himself.
Kirk said: Because I delayed in firing at it.
Mccoy said: You had a normal emotion. You were startled. You delayed firing for a grand total of perhaps two seconds.
Kirk said: If I hadn't delayed, it would have been killed.
Mccoy said: The ship's exec didn't seem to think so. His log entry was quite clear on the subject. Lieutenant Kirk is a fine young officer who performed with uncommon bravery.
Kirk said: Don't you understand? It killed two hundred crewmen.
Mccoy said: Captain Garrovick was very important to you, wasn't he, Jim?
Kirk said: Yes. He was my commanding officer from the day I left the Academy. One of the finest men I ever knew. I could have killed that thing if I'd fired soon enough the first time.
Mccoy said: You don't know that, Jim. You don't know that any more than you know that Garrovick could have destroyed it.
Kirk said: I can't help how I feel. There's an intelligence about it, Bones. A malevolence. It's evil. It must be destroyed.
Mccoy said: To be so obsessed.
Kirk said: Obsessed?
Mccoy said: That you could destroy yourself, your career, a young boy who reminds you of yourself eleven years ago.
Kirk said: Don't push our friendship past the point where I have to take official
Mccoy said: I'm not, Jim. This is professional, Captain. I am preparing a medical log entry on my estimation of the physical and emotional condition of a starship captain. Which requires a witness of command grade.
McCoy goes to the door and opens it to admit Spock.
Kirk said: Do I take it, Doctor, Commander, that both of you or either of you consider me unfit or incapacitated?
Spock said: Correctly phrased, Captain. As recommended in the manual. Our reply, also as recommended, is, sir, we have noted in your recent behaviour certain items, which, on the surface, seem unusual. We respectfully ask permission to inquire further
Kirk said: Blast it! Forget the manual! Ask your questions.
Spock said: Sir, the USS Yorktown is waiting now at the rendezvous point. It carries perishable drugs
Kirk said: Skip the recitation, Spock. I know the facts.
Mccoy said: They need those vaccines on Theta Seven, Captain. Now why are we delaying here?
Kirk said: Because I'm convinced that this is the same creature that attacked the Farragut eleven years ago.
Spock said: Creature, Captain?
Kirk said: My report is on the tapes. As it attacked us eleven years ago, as I lost consciousness, I could feel the intelligence of the thing. I could sense it thinking, planning.
Spock said: You say you could sense its intelligence, Captain? How did it communicate with you?
Mccoy said: You state that it happened just as you lost consciousness. A semiconscious mind is a very tricky thing. A man never knows how much is real or how much is imagination.
Kirk said: Whatever it is, Doctor, whatever it is, wouldn't you call it deadly?
Mccoy said: Yes, there's no doubt about that.
Kirk said: And what if it is the same creature that attacked eleven years ago from a planet over a thousand light years from here?
Spock said: Obviously, Captain, if it is an intelligent creature, if it is the same one, if it therefore is capable of space travel, it could pose a great threat to inhabited planets.
Kirk said: A lot of ifs, I agree, but in my command judgment, they out weigh other factors. Intuition, however illogical, Mister Spock, is recognized as a command prerogative.
Mccoy said: Jim, we're not trying to gang up on you.
Kirk said: And you haven't, Doctor. You've expressed the proper concern, you've asked the proper questions. You've both done your duty. Now may I ask what medical log entry you intend to make?
Mccoy said: At this point, my medical log remains open.
Kirk said: In that case, gentlemen
Chekov said: Bridge to Captain. Come in.;
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Chekov said: I have a reading on the whatever it is, Captain. Leaving the planet surface, heading into space.
Kirk said: All decks, Red Alert. Red alert. Prepare to leave orbit.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Captain, we can't maintain warp eight speed much longer. Pressures are approaching the critical point.
Kirk said: Range, Mister Chekov?
Chekov said: Point zero four light years ahead. Our phasers won't reach it, sir.
Spock said: We are barely closing in on it, Captain. We could be pursuing it for days.
Kirk said: If necessary. Do what you can to increase our speed, Scott.
Scott said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Extreme magnification, Mister Chekov.
Chekov said: Magnification twelve. There, sir. Got it.
Kirk said: Spock, how do you read that?
Spock said: Conflicting data, Captain. It seems to be in a borderline state between matter and energy. Elements of both. It could possibly use gravitational fields for propulsion.
Kirk said: And you don't find that sophisticated, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Extremely efficient, Captain. Whether that indicates intelligence is another matter.
Chekov said: Open hatch on impulse engine number two. Mister Scott was doing an AID clean-up on it.
Kirk said: We won't be using the impulse engines. Turn the alarm off.
Chekov said: Aye, sir.
Scott said: Captain, we can't do it. If we keep this speed, we'll blow up any minute now.
Scott looks frantic, Spock almost concerned, everyone else is worried. Kirk looks as if he might burst into tears of frustration.
KIRK; Go to warp six.
Scene: Garrovick's quarters.
Chapel said: Hi. Everyone else is at alert station, so I brought you some dinner.
Garrovick said: I'm not hungry.
Chapel said: Doctor's orders.
Garrovick said: What's happening?
Chapel said: Are we still chasing that thing half way across the galaxy? Yes. Has the captain lost his sense of balance? Maybe. Is the entire crew about ready to explode? Positively. You're lucky you're out of it.
Garrovick said: What do you mean, out of it? I caused it. You know that, too, don't you? If I'd fired my phaser quickly enough on Argus Ten, this wouldn't have happened.
Chapel said: You know, self-pity's a terrible first course. Why don't you try the soup instead?
Garrovick said: I told you, Christine, I'm not hungry.
Chapel said: Doctor McCoy thought you might say something like that. This is his officially logged prescription for you. It has one word on it. Eat. Now if you don't follow his orders, Doctor McCoy could and possibly would have you hauled down to Sickbay and fed intravenously.
She leaves, carrying the record tape.
Scene: McCoy's office.
Chapel puts the record tape in McCoy's in-tray.
Mccoy said: What's that?
Chapel said: Hmm? (picks up the tape again) This?
Mccoy said: (reading) A survey on Cygnian Respiratory Diseases? I thought you took Garrovick some food. What were you doing with this?
Chapel said: Applying psychology.
Scene: Bridge.
Chekov said: The creature is slowing. It's down to warp two.
Kirk said: Reduce speed. Approach slowly.
Chekov said: I don't understand. It was outrunning us.
Kirk said: Maybe it's decided to fight. Phasers ready?
Chekov said: Phasers show ready, sir.
{Garrovick's quarters]
Garrovick takes the lid off his meal and throws it across the room. It knocks the switch on his ventilation filter to 'bypass'.
Kirk said: Battle stations. All decks to battle stations. This is not a drill. All decks to battle stations.
Garrovick dashes out into the corridor.
Scene: Bridge.
Chekov said: It's coming to a full halt, sir. Magnification one.
Kirk said: Move in closely, Mister Chekov. Sublight one quarter speed.
Garrovick said: Captain, request permission to return to my post.
He is totally ignored.
Chekov said: Within phaser range, sir.
Kirk said: Lock all phasers on target.
Chekov said: Locked on target.
Kirk said: Fire phasers, Mister Chekov.
The beams of deadly light go straight through the cloud.
Chekov said: Phasers ineffectual, sir.
Kirk said: Photon torpedoes. Minimum spread pattern.
Chekov said: Minimum pattern ready, sir.
Kirk said: Fire photon torpedoes.
The ship is rocked by the blasts at such close quarters.
Uhura said: There. It's coming, sir.
Kirk said: Deflectors up.
Chekov said: Deflectors up, sir.
Spock said: The deflectors will not stop it, Captain.
Scott said: That's impossible.
Spock said: I should have surmised this. For the creature to be able to use gravity as a propulsive force, it would have to have this capacity.
Chekov said: Five seconds to contact. All hatches and vents secure. All lights on the board show green. Sir! The number two impulse vent! we have a red light!
Kirk said: (over Chekov's speech) Lieutenant Uhura, all decks (rest of speech lost under Chekov's increasing volume)
Scott said: Captain, something's entered through the number two impulse vent.
Kirk said: Negative pressure in all ship's vents. Alert all decks.
Scene: Briefing room.
Kirk said: Report.
Scott said: When it entered impulse engine number two's vent, it attacked two crewmen. It then got into the ventilating system, and now we have air for only two hours.
Kirk said: Bones?
Mccoy said: One man has a chance for survival. The other is dead. You can add that little price tag to your monster hunt.
Kirk said: That's enough, Bones.
Mccoy said: It's not enough! You didn't care as long as you could hang your trophy on the wall. Well, it's not on it, Captain, it's in it.
Spock said: May I suggest that we no longer belabour the question of whether or not we should have gone after the creature. The matter has now been rendered academic. The creature is now after us.
Mccoy said: Creature, Mister Spock?
Spock said: It turned and attacked, Doctor. Its method was well-considered and intelligent.
Kirk said: Yes, well, it could have been many light years away from us. Instead it chose to turn and attack here. Why?
Spock said: Impossible to tell, Captain, until I can make a closer survey of the creature.
Kirk said: Scotty, try flushing the radioactive waste into the ventilation system. See what effect that has.
Scott said: Aye. (leaves)
Mccoy said: I'm sorry, Jim. I was wrong. (leaves)
SPOCK; Captain, the creature's ability to throw itself out of time sync makes it possible for it to be elsewhere in the instant the phaser hits. There is therefore no basis for your self-recrimination. If you had fired on time and on target eleven years ago, it would have made no more difference than it did an hour ago. Captain Garrovick would still be dead. The fault was not yours, Jim. In fact, there was no fault.
Kirk said: If you want to play analyst, Spock, use someone else, not me. My concern is with the ship and the crew.
Scene: Garrovick's quarters.
Garrovick said: Come in.
Spock said: Ensign, am I correct in my assumption that you've been disturbed by what you consider to be a failure on your part? (a nod) I would like you to consider that the hesitation for which you are blaming yourself is an hereditary trait of your species. When suddenly faced by the unknown or imminent danger, the human will experience a split second of indecision. He hesitates. Do I have your attention, Ensign?
Garrovick said: Yes, sir.
Spock said: I know you would prefer to wallow in emotion rather than
Garrovick said: Mister Spock, it's very kind of you to come here
Spock said: Kindness, Mr. Garrovick, is another human emotion, and I believe we have enough of that. I simply would like you to accept the fact that your reaction has its basis in physio. (suddenly stops and sniffs) Do you smell something?
Garrovick said: Sir, it's coming through the vent.
Spock said: Get out of here! I'll attempt to seal it off.
Spock literally throws Garrovick out into the corridor. He then goes to the vent, but the damaged switch breaks off in his hand.
Scene: Corridor.
Garrovick said: (into intercom) Sir, the creature's in my cabin. It's got Mister Spock.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: On my way, Garrovick. Security to three four one. Medical alert. Scotty, reverse cabin pressure three four one.
He does so, and the gas is sucked back into the vent.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: Security, hold it. Tricorder.
Mccoy said: Jim, Spock may be dying.
Kirk said: If we let that thing into the ship, he'll have a lot of company.
Garrovick said: I must have jammed the vent control when I hit it.
Kirk said: See if the reverse pressure has pulled it back into the ventilation system.
Garrovick said: He saved my life, Captain. I should be lying dead in there, not him.
The cabin door opens.
Spock said: Fortunately, neither of us is dead, Ensign. The reverse pressure worked. The vent is closed.
Kirk said: Don't misunderstand my next question. Mister Spock, why aren't you dead?
Mccoy said: It's that green blood of his.
Spock said: My haemoglobin is based on copper, not iron.
Mccoy said: I'll bet he left a bad taste in the creature's mouth, too.
Spock said: Colloquially expressed, but essentially correct.
Kirk said: Yes. The scent is different. I think I understand something now.
Spock said: Do you believe you're in communication with the creature?
Kirk said: I don't know what it is, Mister Spock, but you remember I said the thing was alive. It may not be communication as we understand it, but I did know it was alive and intelligent, and I think I know something else now.
Scott said: Engineering to Captain Kirk. Engineering to Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Scott said: Scott, Captain. The creature's moving back toward the number two impulse vent. The radioactive flushing may be affecting it.
Kirk said: Open the vent. On my way to the bridge. Kirk out. Ensign Garrovick.
Garrovick said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: You were on the bridge when we were attacked.
Garrovick said: Yes, I'm sorry, sir. I know I was confined to quarters, but when the alert sounded
Kirk said: Very commendable, Ensign. What was your impression of the battle?
Garrovick said: I don't understand, sir.
Kirk said: I'm asking for your military appraisal of the techniques used against the creature.
Garrovick said: Ineffective, Captain. I realise, Captain, you did everything you could do. I know that. It's just that nothing works against a monster that can do the things that thing does.
Kirk said: And Ensign, what is your appraisal of your conduct on the planet?
Garrovick said: I delayed firing.
Kirk said: If you hadn't delayed firing? No difference, Ensign. No weapon known would have made any difference. Then or eleven years ago. Report for duty, Ensign.
Garrovick said: Yes, Captain. Thank you, sir.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Report, Mister Chekov.
Chekov said: Results positive, Captain. The creature has left the ship at high warp speed and is already nearly out of scanner range. The way that thing can move, Captain, I wouldn't believe it.
KIRK; Direction, Mister Spock.
Spock said: It was bearing one two seven mark nine, but I've lost it now.
Kirk said: (into intercom) Mister Scott, I'll need all the speed you can deliver. Keep at it until we begin to shake apart. Kirk out. I believe I know where it's going.
Spock said: It has changed course before to mislead us, Captain. Logic would dictate that
Kirk said: No, I'm playing intuition. Mister Chekov, compute a course for Tychos star system.
Chekov said: Computed and on the board.
Kirk said: Ahead full.
Chekov said: Ahead full, sir.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura, contact Starfleet and the USS Yorktown.
Uhura said: Frequency open and clear, sir.
Kirk said: Inform them that we are pursuing the creature to planet four of that system. That's the location of its attack on the USS Farragut eleven years ago.
Spock said: I do not understand, Captain.
Kirk said: In Garrovick's quarters, I said the scent of the creature was somehow different. Something in my mind said home.
Spock said: And you know where home is, Captain?
Kirk said: Yes, I think I do. I don't know how I know, but home is where it fought a starship once before. Ito Uhura) Inform them of our tactical situation and inform them I'm committing this vessel to the destruction of the creature. We will rendezvous. Round-trip time, Mister Chekov.
Chekov said: One point seven days, sir.
Kirk said: We will rendezvous with the USS Yorktown in forty eight hours.
later
Mccoy said: I assume that you now believe we should pursue the creature and destroy it.
Spock said: Precisely.
Kirk said: You don't agree with Mister Spock?
Mccoy said: It's the time factor that bothers me. Those drugs are perishable.
Spock said: Doctor, evidence indicates the creature is here to spawn. If so, it will reproduce by fission, not just into two parts, but thousands.
Kirk said: Antimatter seems our only possibility.
Spock said: An ounce should be sufficient. We can drain it from the ship's engines and transport it to the planet surface in a magnetic vacuum field.
Kirk said: Contact medical stores. I want as much haemoplasm as they can spare in the transporter room in fifteen minutes.
Garrovick said: Yes, sir.
Mccoy said: I presume you intend to use that haemoplasm to attract the creature?
Kirk said: We must get it to the antimatter. It seems attracted to red blood cells. What better bait could we have?
Spock said: There is still one problem, Captain.
Kirk said: The blast, yes.
Spock said: Exactly. A matter-antimatter blast will rip away half the planet's atmosphere. If our vessel is in orbit and encounters those shock waves
KIRK; A chance we'll have to take, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Also, we cannot be certain the transporter will operate under those conditions. If a man is beaming up when that hits, we may lose him.
Kirk said: That's exactly why I've decided to set the trap myself.
Spock said: Captain, there is so little hemoglobin in my green blood, the creature could not harm me extensively. It therefore seems logical for me to be the one
Kirk said: Negative, Mister Spock. In case this plan fails, I'll need you aboard the ship. In that event, we'll need another plan.
Spock said: It will require two men to transport the antimatter unit.
Garrovick said: I'd like permission to go with you, sir.
Kirk said: I had you in mind, Mister Garrovick.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk, Garrovick and a blue ball under a floating carrying device beam down.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise.
Spock said: Spock here, Captain.
Kirk said: Proceed immediately to maximum orbit.
Spock said: Acknowledged.
Garrovick said: Just think, Captain, less than one ounce of antimatter here is more powerful than ten thousand cobalt bombs.
KIRK; Let's hope it's as powerful as man will ever get. Detonator.
Garrovick said: Aye, sir.
He primes and sets it on the anti-grav unit.
KIRK; Kirk to Enterprise.
Scene: Bridge.
SPOCK; Spock here, Captain. Holding at thirty thousand kilometres.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: Antimatter container positioned and armed. I'll call you back when it's baited. Kirk out.
Garrovick said: Captain, look!
The cloud is already over the bottle of blood. Within moments it is empty.
Garrovick said: The haemoplasm. The bait's already taken.
Kirk said: We'll need something else for bait.
Garrovick said: Sir, that thing only feeds on blood.
Kirk said: Garrovick, get back to the ship. Tell them to prepare to detonate.
Garrovick said: Captain, you're not going to be the bait.
Kirk said: I said, get back to the ship. Ensign, I gave you an order.
Garrovick said: Yes, sir.
A quick karate chop knocks Kirk down but not out. He lands a couple of punches on Garrovick.
Kirk said: Consider yourself on report. This is no time for heroics. I have no intention of sacrificing myself, at least not yet. (into communicator) Spock? Spock?
Spock said: Spock here.
Kirk said: Scan us and lock on to us. It's going to be close. Very, very close. Stand by. Stand by, Enterprise.
The cloud approaches.
Garrovick said: I can smell it, Captain. It's sickening. Honey sweet.
Kirk said: Stand by, Enterprise. (The cloud reaches them) Now! Energise and detonate!
BANG!
Scene: Transporter room.
Spock and Scott are at the controls with McCoy watching.
Spock said: Reset. Energise.
Chekov said: All decks, stand by. Shock waves.
The ship is shaken, and still nothing appears on the transporter pad.
Mccoy said: Do something.
Spock said: We are, Doctor. Cross-circuiting to A.
Scott said: Got them. A piece of them, anyway.
Spock said: Cross-circuiting to B.
Mccoy said: Crazy way to travel, spreading a man's molecules all over the universe.
Finally the swirly bits solidify into two men.
Scott said: Captain, thank heaven.
Spock said: Mister Scott, there was no deity involved. It was my cross-circuiting to B that recovered them.
Mccoy said: Well then, thank pitchforks and pointed ears. As long as it worked, Jim.
Kirk said: That's a fair statement, Bones. Now that the creature is dead, let's save some lives. We'll deliver your medicine. Bridge, this is Kirk.
Uhura said: Uhura here.
Kirk said: Have Mister Chekov lay in a course for a rendezvous with the Yorktown, maximum warp.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Oh, Ensign, meet me in my quarters when you've cleaned up. I'd like to talk to you about your father. Several tall stories I think you'd like to hear.
Garrovick said: Thank you, sir. I would.