The Deadly Years
Stardate: 3478.2
Original Airdate: 8 Dec, 1967
Scene: Settlement.
Kirk, Spock, McCoy, Scott, Chekov and Galway beam down to a group of pre-fabricated buildings. The sky is orange.
Kirk said: Where is everyone?
Mccoy said: Perhaps they weren't expecting us.
Spock said: Our arrival was scheduled well in advance, Doctor. The annual check of every scientific expedition is routine.
Kirk said: I had a subspace contact with a Robert Johnson, the leader of this expedition, an hour ago.
Mccoy said: Did he report anything wrong?
Kirk said: No, yet there was something wrong. I can't pin it down. His conversation was disjointed, his thoughts a little foggy, unrelated. Chekov, check that building. Mister Spock and I will check this one. The rest of you, take a look around. See if you can find anyone.
Chekov goes into the dark building - it has no windows - and the light comes on as he bumps up against a table bearing the body of a very old man. He panics and runs out again.
Chekov said: Captain! Captain! Captain! Captain!
Kirk said: What is it?
Chekov said: A man, sir. In there. A dead man.
Scene: Building.
Again, the lights only come on when the party reaches the table in the middle of the room.
Kirk said: Well?
Mccoy said: Exactly what it looks like. Death by natural causes. Old age.
Spock said: Quite impossible, Doctor. I ran a personnel check on this expedition before we beamed down. I assure you that none of them were
He is interrupted by the entrance of an old man and woman. ROBERT: (to the woman They've come to pay their respects to Alvin.
Kirk said: I'm Captain Kirk of
Robert said: You'll have to speak louder.
Kirk said: I say I'm Captain Kirk of the USS Enterprise. Who are you?
Robert said: I'm Robert Johnson. This is my wife, Elaine.
Kirk said: How old are you? How old are you?
Robert said: I'm, er, let me see. I am twenty nine, and Elaine is
Elaine said: I'm twenty seven.
Captain's log, stardate 3478.2. On a routine mission to re-supply the experimental colony at Gamma Hydra Four, we discovered a most unusual phenomenon. Of the six members of the colony, none of whom were over thirty, we found four had died and two were dying of old age.
Scene: Sickbay.
Kirk said: Mister Johnson, can you hear me?
Robert said: I can hear you. Not deaf yet, you know. Not yet.
Kirk said: Can you tell me what happened?
Robert said: What happened?
Kirk said: Did your instruments show anything?
Robert said: Elaine was so beautiful. So beautiful. So beautiful.
Mccoy said: He can hear you, Jim, but he doesn't understand. Let's let him rest.
Kirk said: (to nurse) If they seem lucid, I'll be in the briefing room.
Scene: Briefing room.
Kirk said: Stay seated. Commodore Stocker, I've asked you to be part of this briefing because Gamma Hydra Four falls in your administrative area.
Stocker said: I appreciate that, sir.
Kirk said: Doctor Wallace, as an expert in endocrinology, I'd appreciate you working very closely Doctor McCoy.
Wallace said: (a young blonde woman in a pink dress) Yes, Captain.
Kirk said: Doctor McCoy, would you fill them in?
Mccoy said: The expedition is suffering from extreme old age, and they're growing older by the minute. Much older. My examinations have turned up absolutely nothing. In fact, I don't have a clue.
Kirk said: What about the atmosphere and environment, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Sensors reveal nothing which is inimical to human life. The atmosphere screens out the usual amount of harmful cosmic rays.
Kirk said: We're close to the neutral Zone between our Federation and the Romulan empire. It's possible the Romulans have a new weapon and are using this colony as guinea pigs.
Spock said: I have already begun investigation into that possibility, Captain.
Kirk said: Good. I want you all to check out everything in your own departments. No matter how remote, how far-fetched the notion, I want it run down. We'll stay in orbit until we have the answer.
Stocker said: I'm sure you understand that I'm anxious to get to Starbase Ten to assume my new post.
Kirk said: Yes, Commodore. We'll do everything we can to make sure you make your duty.
Stocker said: Thank you, sir.
Everyone leaves, but Doctor Wallace remains seated.
Kirk said: Doctor, is there something I can do for you?
Wallace said: Well, be a little less the cool, efficient Captain and a little more the old friend.
Kirk said: How long has it been?
Wallace said: Six years, four months, and an odd number of days. You mean you don't know?
Kirk said: Well, it's been a long time. Things wouldn't change if it started all over again, would it? You have your job, I have my ship, and neither one of us will change.
Wallace said: You said it. I didn't. In all those years, I only heard from you once. A stargram when my husband died. You know, you never asked me why I got married after we called it off.
Kirk said: Well, I supposed that you met someone you loved.
Wallace said: I met a man I admired. A great man.
Kirk said: And in your field as you. You didn't give up a thing.
Wallace said: No. Just you.
Uhura said: Captain Kirk, Mister Spock would like to see you on the Bridge.
Kirk said: I'm on my way.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Standard orbit, Captain.
Kirk said: Maintain.
Spock said: I've rechecked the sensors, Captain. Gamma Hydra Four checks out as a Class M planet with a conventional oxygen-nitrogen atmosphere and normal mass. I can find nothing at all out of the ordinary.
Kirk said: What about the comet that astrophysics reported?
Spock said: We're checking it on it. I've reached no conclusions as yet. The comet was a rogue and has never been investigated.
Stocker said: Captain Kirk?
Kirk said: Yes, Commodore.
Stocker said: Facilities at Starbase Ten are much more complete than those on board ship. It seems to me that your investigations would be facilitated if we proceeded there. I assure you all co-operation.
Kirk said: Thank you. You're anxious to get to the base, but we have a few facilities of our own here. I think the Enterprise will do quite nicely. I'll be in engineering, Mister Spock. Maintain standard orbit, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: You already gave that command, sir.
Kirk said: Oh? Well, follow it.
Scene: Sickbay.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: Lieutenant Galway.
Galway said: (a petite woman) Doctor, may I speak to you for a moment, please?
Mccoy said: Of course. Go right ahead.
Galway said: I know this is going to sound foolish, but I seem to be having a little trouble hearing.
Mccoy said: It's probably nothing important.
Galway said: I never had trouble before.
Mccoy said: Well, don't worry about it. Perhaps a little hypersonic treatment might clear it up.
Galway said: Thank you.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Kirk said: Progress report, Mister Spock.
Spock said: All research lines negative, Captain.
Kirk said: Astronomical section reports that a comet recently passed by. Check into that.
Spock said: I'm doing that, Captain, as per your previous order. We discussed that earlier.
Kirk said: Oh, yes. Let me know what you come up with. I'll be in the Sickbay.
Spock said: Acknowledged.
Kirk turns to put on a clean shirt and jerks, putting a hand to his back.
Scene: Sickbay.
McCoy and Chapel are putting a sheet over the face of a patient.
Mccoy said: The last one. Robert Johnson. Cause of death, old age.
Kirk said: You did what you could.
Mccoy said: Which adds up to absolutely nothing.
Scene: McCoy's office.
Scott said: Doctor McCoy, this is Scott. May I come see you?
Mccoy said: All you need are vitamins, but you can come up anyhow.
Kirk said: Bones, I believe you're getting grey.
Mccoy said: You take over my job and see what happens to you.
Kirk said: I see what you mean.
Mccoy said: What's your problem, Jim?
Kirk said: Shoulder. Just a twinge. Probably muscular strain.
Mccoy said: You're probably right, Doctor. By the way, I don't like how you've been running this ship lately.
Kirk said: All right. Reprimand received. Go ahead.
McCoy scans his arm, then takes hold of a finger. Kirk pulls back in pain.
Mccoy said: Jim, I think we better'd run a complete physical on you.
Kirk said: Why? Just muscular strain, isn't it?
Mccoy said: No, Jim. It's advanced arthritis, and it's spreading.
Kirk said: That's impossible.
Mccoy said: I can run it through again, but I'll come up with the same thing.
Scott enters, his hair light grey and his face deeply lined.;
Kirk said: Scotty!
Captain's log, stardate 3579.4. The Enterprise personnel who beamed down to the planet's surface, Doctor McCoy, Engineer Scott, Mister Spock, Lieutenant Galway, and myself are all showing definite signs of aging. Only Ensign Chekov appears to be normal.
Scene: Sickbay.
Chekov is on the stamina machine, Spock is on a bio-bed, Kirk and McCoy are definitely looking older. Chapel and Wallace are also present.
Kirk said: Report, Bones.
Mccoy said: All of us who went down to the surface, with the exception of Chekov, are aging at various rates. Approximately thirty years for each day. I don't know what's causing it. A virus, a bacteria, or evil spirits, but I'm trying to find out.
Kirk said: Spock, could I ask for some figures?
Spock said: (looking about the same as usual) Based on what Doctor McCoy gave me, I estimate that physically we each have less than a week to live. Also, since our mental faculties are aging faster than our bodies, we will be little better than mental vegetables in considerably lesser time.
Kirk said: Total senility?
Spock said: Yes, Captain. In a very short time.
Kirk said: What a way to die. All right. I want all the research facilities, all the scientific technicians, to start round-the-clock research immediately. I want the answers, and I want the remedy. Let's start by finding out why Chekov hasn't been affected.
Mccoy said: I'm doing what I can. (to Spock) You're perfectly healthy.
Spock said: (sitting up) I must differ with you, Doctor. I'm having difficulty concentrating, which is most disturbing, my eye sight appears to be failing, and the normal temperature of the ship seems to me to be increasingly cold.
Mccoy said: I did not say you weren't affected, Mister Spock. You are perfectly healthy, that is, for any normal Vulcan on the high side of a hundred.
Scott said: Captain, can I go back to my station?
Kirk said: You feel up to it?
Scott said: Of course I do. I just need a wee bit of rest, that's all.
He leaves, with Spock giving him a hand.
Mccoy said: You can leave, too, Lieutenant Galway. Lieutenant Galway?
Galway said: What? You spoke to me, Doctor?
Mccoy said: Yes, I spoke to you. I said that you could leave, too. Now why don't you go down to your quarters and get some sleep.
Galway said: No. I don't want to sleep. Can't you understand? If I sleep, what will I find when I wake up?
Camera finally pans over to show us an old woman with a dowagers hump.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Galway, assume your position. Start your duties.
Galway said: Thank you, sir. (on her way out) What a stupid place to hang a mirror.
Kirk said: She's ten years younger than I am, and she looks,
Mccoy said: People age normally at different speeds, Jim.
Kirk said: Why hasn't he aged?
Mccoy said: I don't know.
Kirk said: Well I want to know! Is it his youth, his blood type, his heritage, his glands, his genes?
Mccoy said: His genes. All right, nurse. Prepare Chekov for another complete physical.
Chapel said: Come along, Ensign. This won't hurt. Much.
Chekov said: Promises.
Scene: McCoy's office.
Wallace said: A few years ago on Aldebaran Three, my husband and I tried various carbohydrate compounds to slow down the degeneration of plant life.
Mccoy said: Then try that, Doctor Wallace. Try anything, but do it quickly.
Wallace said: Yes, sir. (leaves)
Kirk said: I'll be on the Bridge. Keep me posted as to Chekov.
Scene: Corridor.
Doctor Wallace is waiting for Kirk.
Kirk said: I thought you were on your way to the biochemistry lab, Doctor.
Wallace said: We both go in the same direction.
Kirk said: So we do.
Wallace said: Look, we know the problem. We know the progress of the affliction. Therefore, once we find the proper line of research, it's only logical we find the solution.
Kirk said: You sound like my first officer.
Wallace said: No problem is insoluble. Not even ours.
Kirk said: That didn't spring from logic.
Wallace said: Our situation doesn't have its roots in logic. The heart is not a logical organ. When I married Theodore Wallace, I thought I was over you. I was wrong.
Kirk said: When did you realise that? Today?
Wallace said: What?
Kirk said: How much older was your husband than you?
Wallace said: What difference does that make?
Kirk said: Answer me.
Wallace said: Twenty six years.
Kirk said: That's quite a difference.
Wallace said: Jim, he was a brilliant man. We were stationed on a lonely outpost. We were working together. I don't want to talk about him. I want to talk about us.
Kirk said: Look at me. Look at me. What do you see?
Wallace said: I see Captain James Kirk, a man of morality, decency, handsome, and strong.
Kirk said: And old. And rapidly growing older.
Wallace said: Jim, please.
Kirk said: What are you offering me, Jan? Love, or a going away present?
Scene: Bridge.
Chekov said: Give us some more blood, Chekov. The needle won't hurt, Chekov. Take off your shirt, Chekov. Roll over, Chekov. Breathe deeply, Chekov. Blood sample, Chekov. Marrow sample, Chekov. Skin sample, Chekov. If I live long enough, I'm going to run out of samples.
Sulu said: You'll live.
Chekov said: Oh, yes. I'll live, but I won't enjoy it.
Sulu said: Maintaining standard orbit, Captain.
Kirk enters.
Kirk said: Increase orbit to twenty thousand perigee, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Aye, aye, sir.
Atkins said: (a blonde yeoman) Will you sign this, sir?
He drops the pen, she starts to stoop to pick it up.
Kirk said: Yeoman. (picks the pen up) You have a reason for being on the Bridge, Commodore Stocker?
Stocker said: I'd hoped for a few words with you at your convenience.
Kirk said: I have very little time.
Stocker said: If I may say so sir, we have a due date at Starbase Ten.
Kirk said: We're going to be late. I don't intend to leave this area until we've found the solution for this problem.
Stocker said: Captain, I'm watching four very valuable and one almost irreplaceable members of the Starfleet failing before my eyes. I want to do something to help.
Kirk said: Yes, yes. If you're so concerned, I'll send a message to Starbase Ten.
Spock said: Captain, you sent such a message this morning.
Kirk said: Yeoman? Where's that
Atkins said: Sir?
Kirk said: Fuel consumption report?
Atkins said: I gave it to you. You signed it.
Kirk said: If I'd signed it, I wouldn't have asked for it, now would l?
Atkins said: Your signature, Captain.
Later, everyone is tip-toeing around an obviously sleeping Captain in his comfy chair. Spock enters, unaware.
Spock said: Captain, I believe (notices, and wakes him gently) Captain. Captain.
Kirk said: Mister Spock. I was just thinking.
Spock said: Yes, sir. Quite understandable.
Kirk said: You have something to report?
Spock said: Yes, sir. We have the cause of the affliction.
Kirk said: What is it?
Spock said: The orbit of Gamma Hydra Four carried the planet directly through the comet's trail. On conventional radiation settings, we discovered nothing. On resetting our sensors to the extreme lower range of the scale, undetected radiation appeared. Below normal radiation levels but definitely present, and undoubtedly residue from the comet.
Kirk said: Good, Spock. Well done. Let's get this to Doctor McCoy immediately. Oh. Lieutenant, take a message to Starfleet Command. Due to the proximity of the Romulans, you'd better use Code two.
Uhura said: But, Captain, the Romulans have broken Code two. If you remember the last bulletin
Kirk said: Then use Code three.
Uhura said: Yes, sir. Code three.
Kirk said: Message. Key to affliction may be comet which passed by Gamma Hydra Four. Said comet is now,
Spock said: (consulting PADD) Quadrant four four eight, sir.
Kirk said: Quadrant. All units are to be alerted for complete analysis of radiation and means found to neutralise it. Comet is highly dangerous. Kirk, commanding Enterprise. Immediately, Lieutenant. Let's go.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Oh, Mister Sulu. Increase orbit to twenty thousand mile perigee.
Sulu said: You mean another twenty thousand, Captain?
Kirk said: I fail to understand why each one of my commands is being questioned. Now do as you're told, Mister Sulu.
Spock said: Mister Sulu, what is our present position?
Sulu said: Orbiting at twenty thousand, sir.
Kirk said: Maintain.
Sulu said: Maintaining, sir.
Scene: Biochemistry lab.
Mccoy said: Radiation? That's as good an answer as any, but why didn't we know about it earlier?
Spock said: Possibly, Doctor, because my thinking processes are not as efficient as before.
Mccoy said: (to Wallace) Run this through, Doctor.
Kirk said: All right, Bones, I'm going up to the Bridge. Keep me posted. Spock?
Spock said: I have a question for the doctor. (Kirk leaves) Doctor, the ship's temperature is increasingly uncomfortable for me. I've adjusted the environment in my quarters to one hundred twenty five degrees, which is at least tolerable. However, I
Mccoy said: Well, I see I'm not going to be making any house calls on you.
Spock said: I wondered if perhaps there was something which could lower my sensitivity to cold.
Mccoy said: I'm not a magician, Spock, just an old country doctor.
Spock said: Yes. As I always suspected. (leaves)
Wallace said: Doctor McCoy, none of our usual radiation therapies will have any effect on this radiation sickness.
Mccoy said: Well, then we just start over, that's all. We work harder, faster, and we start completely from scratch if we have to. But we find something.
Scene: Corridor.
Stocker said: Spock, can I have a word with you?
Spock said: Commodore?
Stocker said: Mister Spock, a starship can function with a Chief Engineer, a Chief Medical Officer, even a First Officer under physical par. But it's disastrous to have a commanding officer whose condition is any less than perfection.
Spock said: I am aware of that.
Stocker said: Please understand me. My admiration for Captain Kirk is unbounded. He is a great officer. But Mister Spock, I need your help and your co-operation.
Spock said: For what, sir?
Stocker said: I would like you to take over command of the Enterprise.
Spock said: On what grounds, Commodore?
Stocker said: On the grounds that the captain, because of his affliction, is unable to perform his duties.
Spock said: Need I remind you, sir, that I too have contracted the same affliction?
Stocker said: Yes, but you're a Vulcan. You have a much greater life span. You show the affects to a much smaller degree.
Spock said: I'm half human, sir. My physical reflexes are down, my mental capacity is reduced. I tire easily. No, sir. I am not fit for command.
Stocker said: Well, if you are not, with your Vulcan physique, then obviously Captain Kirk cannot be.
Spock said: Sir, I do have duties to perform.
Stocker said: Mister Spock. I do not like what I'm about to say but regulations demand it. And as a Starfleet flag officer, I must follow regulations. As second in command of the Enterprise, you must convene an extraordinary competency hearing.
Spock said: I resist that suggestion, Commodore.
Stocker said: It's not a matter of choice. When a captain is unfit, physically or mentally, a competency hearing is mandatory. Please don't make me quote a regulation which you know as well as I do.
Spock said: Very well, sir. The hearing shall convene at fourteen hundred hours.
Scene: Sickbay.
Chekov is back on the biobed.
Mccoy said: Now this isn't going to hurt a bit.
Chekov said: That's what you said the last time.
Mccoy said: Did it hurt?
Chekov said: Yes.
Galway said: Doctor.
She collapses in Kirk's arms.
Kirk said: Bones.
Mccoy said: She's dead. Her metabolism caused her to age more rapidly than the rest of us, but the same thing's going to happen to us unless
Kirk said: How long have we got, Bones?
Mccoy said: Oh, a matter of days. Perhaps hours.
Scene: Briefing room.
Spock said: Let it read that this competency hearing was ordered by Commodore Stocker and reluctantly called by myself.
Kirk said: Let it also read that I consider it invalid.
Stocker said: Mister Spock, may I make a statement? I have had to resort to these legal grounds in order to save the lives of some very valuable members of the Starfleet. I have tried to convince Captain Kirk of the necessity of proceeding to Starbase Ten, but I've been overruled in each case. The responsibility of this hearing is mine.
Spock said: On the contrary, Commodore. As presiding officer and as second in command of the Enterprise, the responsibility is mine. Captain Kirk, would you like to make a statement?
Kirk said: Yes, I would like to make a statement. I am the captain of this ship and am totally capable of commanding her. Let's call this whole thing off and get back to work.
Spock said: It is quite impossible, Captain. The regulations are quite specific. You are entitled to direct examination of all witnesses immediately after the board has questioned them.
Kirk said: Very kind of you, Spock.
Spock said: Mister Sulu, how long have you served with Captain Kirk?
Sulu said: Two years, sir.
Spock said: To your knowledge, has he ever had any difficulty making decisions?
Sulu said: No, sir.
Spock said: Did he order you to maintain standard orbit around Gamma Hydra Four?
Sulu said: Yes, sir.
Spock said: Did he not, several minutes later, repeat that order?
Sulu said: Yes, sir.
Spock said: Did he order you to increase orbit?
Sulu said: Yes, sir.
Spock said: Did he not several minutes later repeat that order?
Kirk said: He did not. When I give an order, I expect it to be obeyed. I don't have to repeat myself.
Spock said: Mister Sulu, please answer the question.
Sulu said: Yes, sir. Captain Kirk repeated his order.
Spock said: Thank you, Mister Sulu. Yeoman Atkins, you handed Captain Kirk a fuel consumption report in the presence of witnesses, which he read and signed. Is that correct?
Atkins said: Sir, he had more important things on his mind.
Spock said: Yeoman, you will simply answer the question.
Atkins said: I, I guess he forgot he'd signed it.
Spock said: You guess?
Atkins said: He'd forgot he'd signed it.
Spock said: Thank you, Yeoman. You may leave. Lieutenant Uhura. I have here a bulletin from Starfleet Command which states that the Romulans have broken Code two. Are these your initials which appear at the bottom?
Uhura said: They are.
Spock said: And whose initials are those which appear directly below yours?
Uhura said: Those of Captain Kirk.
Spock said: Did Captain Kirk ask you to send a message about the comet which passed Gamma Hydra Four?
Uhura said: He did.
Spock said: Using Code two.
Uhura said: Oh, yes, but he changed it to Code three.
Spock said: After you reminded him that the Romulans had broken Code two.
Uhura said: Yes.
Spock said: Thank you, Lieutenant. Doctor McCoy, Doctor McCoy!
Mccoy said: (waking up) Yes, Spock? What is it?
Spock said: Several hours ago, at the request of this board, you ran a complete physical examination of Captain Kirk.
Mccoy said: I did.
Spock said: Medical banks, compute described subject's physical age, using established norms as comparative base.
Computer said: Working. Subject's physical age based on physiological profile, between sixty and seventy two. Aging rapidly.
Kirk said: No, I'm thirty four. I'm thirty four years old.
Stocker said: The computer differs with you, Captain.
Spock said: Doctor McCoy.
Mccoy said: Yes.
Spock said: Will you give us your professional evaluation of Captain Kirk's present physical condition.
Mccoy said: Captain Kirk is suffering from a, a peculiar physical degeneration which strongly resembles aging.
Spock said: Is not his mental capacity degenerating even more rapidly?
Mccoy said: Yes, yes, but he's a better man right now
Spock said: Doctor, you heard the computer's analysis of Captain Kirk's physical age. Do you agree with it?
Mccoy said: It's a blasted machine, Spock! You can't argue with a machine.
Spock said: Do you agree with it, Doctor?
Mccoy said: Yes. Yes, I do, agree. And I am sorry, Jim.
Spock said: This board has no further questions. Unless you, Commodore Stocker, have something that you would like to add.
Stocker said: No. I am quite satisfied, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Do you wish to call any witnesses, Captain Kirk?
Kirk said: I am perfectly capable of speaking in my own defence, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Captain, I would suggest
Kirk said: No, no, no. It's all right, Spock. It's all right. There's only one reason, and one reason alone, for having this, hearing. I refused to leave Gamma Hydra Two
Spock said: Gamma Hydra Four, Captain.
Kirk said: Yes. A slip of the tongue.
Spock said: You're inability to remember having given commands, reading and signing important orders and then forgetting them, your physical analysis as compiled by our own chief surgeon. All these things would appear to be irrefutable proof of failing physical and mental conditions.
Kirk said: So I'm a little confused. Who wouldn't be at a time like this? My ship's in trouble, my senior officers are ill. And this nonsense about a competency hearing is enough to mix up any man. Trying to relieve a captain of his command is, well, that's, that's. Spock, I wouldn't have believed it of you. Go ahead. Ask me questions. I'll show you what I'm capable of. There's nothing wrong with my memory. Go ahead! Ask me anything! We're in orbit around Gamma Hydra Two, right? Anyhow, it doesn't matter. There's a lot more to running a starship than answering a lot of fool questions. A lot more. Go ahead. Ask me questions.
Spock said: We have no more questions, Captain.
Kirk said: Ask me anything. Anything.
Spock said: There'll be no more questions, Captain. If you would leave the room so the board can vote
Kirk said: Good idea. Get this stupid voting over with so I can get back to running the ship. The most fool thing I ever heard of. Competency hearing when there's work to be done. I'll be in my quarters, awaiting your decision. (leaves)
Stocker said: Well, since the senior officers are incapable and I am of flag rank, I am forced by regulations to assume command.
Spock said: Sir, you have never commanded a starship.
Stocker said: What would you have, a junior officer with far less experience than I have?
Spock said: The danger from the Romulans
Stocker said: Mister Spock, we have to save these people. Mister Sulu, set a direct course for Starbase Ten. Warp five.
Sulu said: Across the Neutral Zone?
Stocker said: Immediately, Mister Sulu. All officers are to return to their posts.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Wallace and Spock enter.
Kirk said: Spock?
Spock said: Yes, Captain.
Kirk said: So, I've been relieved.
Spock said: I'm sorry, Captain.
Kirk said: Yes. You should've been a prosecuting attorney.
Spock said: Regulations require
Kirk said: Regulations. Don't give me regulations. You've wanted command all along. First little excuse you get
Spock said: Captain, I have not assumed command.
Kirk said: I hope you're proud of. What do you mean, you've not assumed command?
Spock said: I suffer the same affliction as you, sir.
Kirk said: If you're not in command, who is?
Spock said: Commodore Stocker.
Kirk said: Stocker? Are you crazy? He's never had a field command.
Spock said: Mister Scott was unfit for command. Commodore Stocker is ranking officer
Kirk said: No! Don't talk to me about rank! The man's a chair-bound paper-pusher. I order you to take command.
Spock said: I cannot, Captain.
Kirk said: Are you refusing a direct order?
Spock said: No, sir. Only Commodore Stocker can give a command order onboard this ship.
Kirk said: You traitorous, disloyal, you stab me in the back the first chance you get? Spock. Get out. I never want to have to look at you again.
Spock leaves.
Kirk said: Jan, Jan.
Wallace said: Oh, Jim. I'm sorry. Truly I am.
Kirk said: I made a fool of myself in there. I shouldn't have let them confuse me, rattle me.
Wallace said: Everybody understood.
Kirk said: But I'm not old, Jan. I'm not. A few muscular aches doesn't make a man old. And you don't run a starship with your arms. You run it with your head. My brain's as sharp as it ever was. A simple case of radiation poisoning, and they relieve me of my command. I admit I'm getting a little grey, but radiation will do that to you.
Wallace said: Oh, Jim, will you forgive me? I have work to do.
Kirk said: Jan, you know me. Look at me closely. Tell me. Am I getting old?
Scene: Doctor's office.
Kirk said: What are you doing here?
Spock said: It would seem to be the place where I can be of the most use.
Kirk said: Maybe you'd like to relieve Doctor McCoy. What about Chekov?
Mccoy said: Nothing. Absolutely nothing.
Kirk said: Bones, there has to be. There has to be. We beamed down together. We were on the surface together. The same spot. We were together all the time.
Spock said: No, not all the time. Captain, he left us for a few moments.
Kirk said: He left us? He left us. He went into the building. Spock, something happened.
Spock said: Yes. Yes, indeed, Captain. Doctor, you remember
Kirk said: He was scared! He saw the dead body and he ran out of the building and he was scared to death.
Mccoy said: Yes, yes. Now that could be. Right. Scared. Heart beats faster, breathe gets short, and there's cold sweats and adrenaline flows. Adrenal activity. Now hold on Just a minute. There was something that I read once. It was ancient history, just after the atomic age. Used for radiation sickness. Adrenaline.
Wallace said: Doctor, hyronalin is the specific accepted for all radiation sickness.
Mccoy said: Yes, yes. Now. But before, adrenaline. Highly promising. Early research, but they abandoned it when hyronalin was discovered.
Spock said: Quite possible, Doctor. Perhaps a sufficiently efficacious compound could be developed.
Mccoy said: Don't just stand there jawing, Spock. You and Doctor Wallace get cracking.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Entering Romulan Neutral Zone, sir. All sensors on maximum.
Stocker said: Thank you, Mister Sulu. Lieutenant Uhura, let me know if we contact any Romulan.
The ship is shaken by an impact.
Uhura said: I think we just made contact, sir.
Sulu said: Romulans approaching from both sides. We're bracketed, sir.
Uhura said: Engineering wants instructions, sir.
Chekov said: Commodore Stocker, what are your orders? Commodore! (But he is transfixed by the sight of another weapon blast heading for them on the viewscreen.)
Scene: Doctor's office.
Kirk said: I'm going up to the bridge.
Mccoy said: No, Jim. You can't do it.
Kirk said: I have to go to the bridge. We're under attack.
Mccoy said: Nurse? Doctor Wallace!
Kirk said: Let me go.
Mccoy said: Nurse.;
Wallace said: Jim.
Chapel said: Easy, Captain.
Kirk said: We're under attack. I have to go to the Bridge. I've got to go to the bridge.
But they bustle him into the ward instead.
Scene: Bridge.
Stocker said: Keep trying to raise the Romulans.
Uhura said: I'm trying, Commodore.
Stocker said: If I could talk to them, explain to them why we violated the Neutral Zone.
Uhura said: The Romulans are notorious for not listening to explanations.
Sulu said: Lieutenant Uhura is right, sir. We've tangled with them before.
Scene: Sickbay.
Kirk said: Greenhorn, up there ruining my ship.
Wallace said: Jim, if I have to give you a shot
Mccoy said: Jim-boy, you just lay quiet. You can't do no good. We're both through.
Kirk said: No. No. My ship. My ship.
Spock totters in carrying a small beaker.
Spock said: Doctor, I made the necessary computations and produced this serum. It is crude and dangerous, but we have no time for refinements.
Mccoy said: All right. Let's, let's go.
Spock said: It could cure or kill, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Don't give me any Vulcan details. Just give me the shot.
Kirk said: No. I'll take the first shot.
Mccoy said: You can't.
Kirk said: How long do you think this ship can take the pounding? I've got to get up there.
Wallace said: Jim, it could kill you.
Kirk said: I'll die anyway. Do it.
Spock said: Doctor Wallace, give him the shot.
Kirk said: Quickly. Quickly.
She does, and he goes into convulsions. Fortunately he is already strapped down.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Sir, they've fired another.
Scene: Sickbay.
As the Enterprise continues to be battered, Kirk is writhing and groaning.
Mccoy said: Well, well, what's happening?
Wallace said: The ageing process has stopped. His bodily functions are getting stronger.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Sir, I've tried all known hailing frequencies. They simply ignore us.
Stocker said: Opinion, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: They know they have us. They know our shields will give out.
Stocker said: Well then, we have no alternative but to surrender.
Chekov said: Sir, the Romulans do not take captives.
Sulu said: We're losing power, sir.
Stocker said: What am I going to do? I've got to do something.
Kirk said: Report, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: We're surrounded by Romulan vessels. Maximum of ten. Range fifty to a hundred thousand kilometres.
Kirk said: Engineering, this is the captain. I want full emergency power. I want everything within about two minutes. I want the warp drive engines on full standby. Kirk out. Open up a special channel to Starfleet Command. Code two.
Uhura said: But, Captain, Code
Kirk said: That's an order, Lieutenant. Code two.
Uhura said: Yes, Captain. Code two.
Kirk said: Message. From Enterprise to Starfleet Command this sector. Have inadvertently encroached upon Romulan Neutral Zone. Surrounded and under heavy Romulan attack. Escape impossible, shields failing. Will implement destruct order using corbomite device recently installed. Since this will result in the destruction of the Enterprise and all matter in a two hundred thousand kilometre diameter and establish a corresponding dead zone, all Federation ships will avoid this area for the next four solar years. Explosion will take place in one minute. Kirk, commanding Enterprise, out. Mister Sulu, course one eight eight degrees, mark fourteen. Speed, warp factor eight. Stand by.
Sulu said: Standing by, sir.
Spock said: Romulans giving ground, Captain. Obviously, they tapped in as you expected them to.
Kirk said: A logical assumption, Mister Spock. Are they still retreating?
Spock said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Good. All hands, stand by. Warp factor eight, now.
Spock said: The Romulans were caught off guard, Captain. They're falling behind.
Kirk said: Are we out of range, Mister Sulu?
Sulu said: Yes, sir. And out of the Neutral Zone.
Kirk said: Secure from Red Alert. Adjust a new course, two five seven degrees, mark three. Heading for Starbase Ten.
Sulu said: Two five seven degrees, mark three.
Stocker said: Captain, I just wanted to assure you that I did what I thought best to save you and the men.
Kirk said: Noted. You should know, however, that there's very little a Starbase can do that a starship can't.
Stocker said: If I may say so, Captain, I am now quite aware of what a starship can do with the right man at the helm.
McCoy enters
Kirk said: You're looking good, Doc.
Mccoy said: Feeling fine. So is Scotty. The serum worked. He pulled a muscle during the reaction, but otherwise he's feeling fine.
Kirk said: And yourself?
Mccoy said: Oh, very well. A few bruises here and there. Oh. Anytime you're ready, Mister Spock.
Spock said: I am quite ready now, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Because of your Vulcan physique, I have prepared an extremely potent shot for you. However, you might like to know I've removed all the breakables from Sickbay.
Spock said: That is very considerate of you, Doctor.
Mccoy said: I thought you'd be pleased to hear that.
Spock, McCoy and Stocker leave as Wallace enters.
Kirk said: Well, gentlemen, all and all, an experience we'll remember in our old age. Which won't be for some while, I hope. Take over, Mister Sulu. Steady as she goes.
Sulu said: Steady as she goes, Captain.
Kirk said: I thought I said that.