The Gamesters Of Triskelion
Stardate: 3211.7
Original Airdate: 5 Jan, 1968
Captain's log, stardate 3211.7. We are entering standard orbit about Gamma Two, an uninhabited planetoid with an automatic communications and astrogation station.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Ensign Chekov, Lieutenant Uhura, and I will beam down and make a routine check of its facilities.
Chekov said: Standard orbit, Captain.
Kirk said: Good. Mind the store, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Acknowledged, Captain.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura, let's go.
Uhura said: Yes, sir.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: Energise, Scotty.
Scott said: Aye, Captain.
But before he can touch the controls, the landing party vanish abruptly.
Scene: Combat area.
The three appear lying on the ground, on a decorated surface. There are iron railings around a vaguely triangular area, and three benches, one on each side.
Chekov said: Captain. what happened?
Kirk said: It must be a transporter malfunction.
Chekov said: That was a rough trip.
Kirk said: This isn't Gamma Two. Look at the colour of that sky. (it's green)
Uhura said: This is the craziest landing pad I've ever seen.
Kirk said: That's a trinary sun.
Scene: Transporter room.
Scott said: Scott to Bridge.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Spock here.
Scene: Transporter room.
Scott said: Mister Spock, the Captain, Lieutenant Uhura, and Chekov. they vanished. They got onto the transporter platform and they just vanished.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: I presume you mean they vanished in a manner not consistent with the usual workings of the transporter, Mister Scott.
Scene: Transporter room.
Scott said: Aye, of course I mean that. You think I'd call if they just beamed down?
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Have you reversed controls?
Scene: Transporter room.
Scott said: I've made all the proper checks. There was nothing. There was no flash of light, nothing. They were gone.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Power surge?
Scene: Transporter room.
Scott said: Not down here. All the dials were right and the transporter was functioning perfectly.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Recheck your equipment, Mister Scott. I'll scan for them on the planet's surface. Spock out.
Scene: Combat area.
Chekov said: But Captain, if we're not on Gamma Two, then where are we?
Kirk said: That's what I'd like to know. Kirk to Enterprise. Kirk to Enterprise. Dead.
Chekov said: Mine, too.
Uhura said: Captain. Look.
People are approaching them. One big guy in a fur, with teeth that hold his mouth open, another male with a knife, a female in pink carrying a lance-like weapon, and another in silver with green hair. KIRK: Phasers on stun. Fire. nothing happens Hand-to-hand.
The men go one-on-one while Uhura has to deal with both women simultaneously. They are not fairly matched. Chekov cannot handle the giant and Uhura quickly gives up. Only Kirk acquits himself well against the normal male, until green-hair intervenes with her weapon.
Captain's log, stardate 3211.8. While beaming down from the Enterprise to inspect facilities on Gamma Two, the normal transporter sequence has been interrupted, and we find ourselves on a strange and hostile planet, surrounded by creatures belonging to races scattered all through the galaxy.
Scene: Combat area.
A thin bald male in a long black cloak pops into the scene.
Galt said: Excellent, Captain Kirk. Although we expected strength and competitive spirit, we are greatly pleased.
Kirk said: Either of you hurt?
Uhura said: I don't think so, Captain.
Chekov said: Nobody's hurt, Captain. Yet.
Galt said: Admirable, Chekov. Admirable. You also, Uhura. Your spirit is as great as the captain's. I can see you all will prove invaluable here. I am Galt, Master Thrall of the planet Triskelion. I have been sent to welcome you.
Scene: Cell.
All three are fastened securely to the wall, and have collars around their necks.
Galt said: There, Captain. Now you are prepared for your training.
Kirk said: How do you know our names?
Galt said: The Providers were expecting you, Captain. They arranged your transportation.
Kirk said: These Providers of yours, are they
Galt said: Correction, Captain. The Providers are not ours. We are theirs.
Kirk said: What do they want from us?
Galt said: You are to be trained, of course. What other use is there for thralls?
Kirk said: Thralls? You must be mistaken. We're officers of a United spaceship on Federation business.
Galt said: There has been no mistake. Your old titles mean nothing here, Captain. You are thralls now. You are to be taken to the training enclosure. (the restraints are released) Come. Places have been prepared for you.
Kirk said: We're not going anywhere until we have some information. Who are you? What is this place? What do you think you're going to do with us?
Galt said: I am Galt, the Master Thrall. This place is the planet Triskelion. You are to be trained and spend the rest of your lives here.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Mister Spock, I've checked that transporter from one end to the other. Every circuit works perfectly. Whatever that power surge was, it had nothing to do with the transporter or any other system aboard this ship.
Spock said: I'm beginning to believe that, Mister Scott. I've conducted two sweeps of the planet's surface. There is no sign of life.
Mccoy said: Then what the devil is happening? Does that mean their atoms are just floating around out there?
Spock said: No, Doctor. Even that would show up on our sensors.
Scott said: Where are they then? SPOCK: The only answers are negative. No magnetic storms, no ionic interference, no breakdown in your equipment.
Mccoy said: A negative attitude is no good to us. We can't just leave them out there, wherever they are.
Spock said: We shall continue sensor scans, Doctor. At the moment, that is all we can do, except hope for a rational explanation.
Mccoy said: Hope? I always thought that was a human failing, Mister Spock.
Spock said: True, Doctor. Constant exposure does result in a certain degree of contamination.
Scene: Accommodation block.
A curved corridor, with doors off on either side. The doors have iron bars in the upper half.
Galt said: These are your quarters. Open, thralls.
As the doors slide open, Chekov and Kirk hit their minders and they all run. Galt's eyes glow, the collars glow and the Starfleet escapees collapse, choking.
Galt said: That was foolish, Captain. Escape is quite impossible, as demonstrated by your collars of obedience. Return to your quarters.
They do, and they are left alone.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: They are not within the confines of this solar system.
Mccoy said: It's been nearly an hour. Can people live that long as disassembled atoms in a transporter beam?
Spock said: I have never heard of a study being done, but it would be a fascinating project.
Mccoy said: Fascinating? Those people are friends of ours out there, if they're still alive.
Spock said: Precisely.
Mccoy said: The odds are not good.
Spock said: No. I would say approximately four hundred
Mccoy said: Don't quote odds and don't give me anymore dispassionate logic, Mister Spock. Just keep looking for them.
Spock said: I would welcome a suggestion, Doctor, even an emotional one, as to where to look.
Mccoy said: First time you've ever asked me for anything, and it has to be an occasion like this.
Scene: Accommodation block.
Chekov said: Captain, the Enterprise. They will be trying to find us, won't they?
Uhura said: They'll try, but where do they look? We're here, and we don't know where it is.
Kirk said: This system's star is a trinary. Limits it a bit, but we're a long way from the Enterprise, if we're in the same dimension.
The male goes to Uhura's cell with a tray.
Lars said: I am your drill thrall. I am called Lars.
Kirk said: What do you want from her? LARS: That is not your concern. Your drill thralls will attend you presently. (he opens Uhura's door and goes in) There is little time.
Uhura said: What are you doing? Get out!
Lars said: I have been selected for you.
The shadow play tells all we need to know. And the screams.
Kirk said: Lieutenant, are you all right? Uhura! Lieutenant! Lieutenant, are you all right? Lieutenant, answer me! Lieutenant! What's happening to Lieutenant Uhura? Lieutenant, are you all right?
Lars said: It is not allowed to refuse selection.
He leaves. Uhura's clothes are intact.
Shahna said: (to Kirk): Step away from the door. (she enters with a tray) Come. It is the nourishment interval.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Captain's log, stardate 3259.2. First Officer Spock in command. The Captain, Lieutenant Uhura, and Ensign Chekov have been missing for nearly two hours. Computer probability projections are useless due to insufficient data. HAINES: (A woman in gold uniform at Spock's station) Mister Spock, I'm getting a fluctuating energy reading on this hydrogen cloud. It's faint, sir, but it consistently reads an excess of predictable energy level.
Spock said: Interesting. It seems to be an ionisation trail.
Mccoy said: What would account for that, Spock?
Spock said: Exactly the question I have just fed to the computers, Doctor. And the answer is, nothing known to us would account for it.
Scott said: Well, the transporter has neither the power nor the range to account for that.
Spock said: Plot a follow course, Ensign Haines.
Haines said: (now in Chekov's seat) Aye, sir.
Mccoy said: You're going to leave here without them and run off on some wild goose chase halfway across the galaxy just because you found a discrepancy in a hydrogen cloud?
Spock said: Doctor, I am chasing the Captain, Lieutenant Uhura, and Ensign Chekov, not some wild aquatic fowl. This is the only lead we've had.
Haines said: Course plotted and laid in, Mister Spock. Three ten mark two four one.
Spock said: Initiate. Warp factor two.
Scene: Chekov's cell.
The robust woman in pink brings him his tray. She smiles at him.
Chekov said: You, you have been selected for me?
Tamoon said: (with a deep voice) No. I am only your drill thrall. I have brought you nourishment. It is a nice name, Chee-koo.
Chekov said: Chekov.
Tamoon said: Chee-koof! It is a very nice name. I am called Tamoon.
Chekov said: (nervous of her intentions) Oh, pleased, Pleased to know you, miss.
Tamoon said: You are a fine specimen. I like you better than the others. I will instruct you well, so my Provider will take you.
Chekov said: That's very kind of you, miss, but
Tamoon said: If my Provider is pleased, we may even be selected for each other.
Scene: Kirk's cell.
Kirk said: I didn't realise I was so hungry. Whatever you call this, it is very good.
Shahna said: It is nourishment. We call it that.
Kirk said: Nourishment. That's very practical. What do you call this collar?
Shahna said: It is a sign of our Provider. By the colour of the lights it can be known who holds us. When you are vended, you will also have a colour.
Kirk said: Vended? You mean bought, sold.
Shahna said: When you are developed. The Provider who offers the most quatloos puts his colour on us.
Kirk said: Our race has another name for it. Slavery. This collar of obedience, is Galt the only one who can operate it?
Shahna said: It is only to warn and punish.
Kirk said: How does he work it?
Shahna said: It is not permitted to talk of that.
Kirk said: Will you provide all my nourishment?
Shahna said: Of course. I am your drill thrall. I will train you well.
KIRK; Yes, I'm sure you will. I must say, I've never seen a top sergeant who looked like you.
Shahna said: What does that mean?
Kirk said: It means you're a very beautiful woman.
Shahna said: What is beautiful?
KIRK; You mean nobody's ever told you that before? well, er, beautiful is, Beautiful. he holds up the tray so she can see her reflection That's beautiful. Shahna, where were you born?
Shahna said: Born? I have been here always.
Kirk said: Your parents. Where are they? Your mother and father.
Shahna said: She who bore me was killed in a freestyle match.
Kirk said: Freestyle?
Shahna said: You will learn all these things.
Kirk said: Lars and Chekov's drill thrall. They weren't born here. Where do they come from?
Shahna said: It is not permitted. (a gong sounds and a red light flashes) The exercise interval. This is your training harness. Put it on.
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: This is ridiculous. There's nothing out there. Nothing at all.
Scott said: We certainly seem to be heading into an empty sector.
Spock said: Projecting back along the path of ionisation, the nearest system is M two four alpha.
Scott said: That must be two dozen light years away.
Spock said: Eleven point six three zero.
Mccoy said: Are you suggesting that they could have transported over a distance of? You're out of your Vulcan mind, Spock.
Spock said: I'm suggesting nothing, Doctor. I am merely pursuing the only logical course available to us.
{Training area]
The three are learning how to fight with the long poles with the curved hook on one end and grapple on the other. Galt enters with another thrall, his hands tied behind him.
Galt said: Hold. This thrall was slow in obeying a command. For his punishment, he will be practice target. As you charge, you will strike the practice target when you pass. You begin, Uhura.
Uhura said: No!
Galt said: It is not allowed to refuse a training exercise.
Uhura said: I don't care whether it's allowed or not. I will not do it.
Kirk said: None of us will do it, Galt.
Galt said: It is part of your training. The Providers wish it.
Kirk said: The devil with the Providers.
Chekov said: Cossacks.
Galt gives them a reminder of what their collars do.
Galt said: We have been tolerant because you are newcomers, but I see you must be given a lesson. Lars. (Lars unties the thrall) Kloog. Kloog will administer correction. Uhura, take your place on the triad. (Lars starts to tie Uhura's hands behind her back.) Tie her.
Kirk said: No. No! I am responsible for the actions of my people. I demand to see the Providers.
Galt said: It is not permitted. But, Captain, since you assume responsibility for your people, you will take the punishment. It is less painful than the collar. Turn around. {Lars ties Kirk's hands.) Captain, you will be practice target. It is a shame to lose you, Captain, but it is worth it as an example to the others.
Captain's log, supplemental. Stardate, unknown. Our strange captivity continues. This planet is called Triskelion. We do not know its location. We do not know who controls it. Its dangers are abundantly clear.
Scene: Combat area.
Kloog (the big, silent one has a whip and net, which Kirk is trying to dodge. His back is bloody and his shirt is torn, but he manages to land a good kick on Kloog.)
Galt said: Hold. Rest interval. Fifteen trisecs.
The two combatants join their comrades on the benches.
Kirk said: He's pretty fast with that whip.
Shahna said: This will strengthen you. Drink it. Kloog's left eye is weak. Approach him from that side.
Galt said: Resume places.
Kirk carries on dodging the whip, whilst loosening his bonds. Finally he manages to get his hands in front of him, jump on Kloog's back and try to strangle him. Kloog falls to the ground.
One said: Hold.
Galt said: We hold, Provider One.
One said: Provider One bids three hundred quatloos for the newcomers.
Two said: Provider Two, three hundred and fifty quatloos.
Three said: Provider Three, four hundred.
Two said: One thousand quatloos.
Three said: One thousand fifty quatloos.
One said: Two thousand.
Galt said: (after a pause) Two thousand quatloos are bid. Is there a challenge? The newcomers have been vended to Provider One.
Kirk said: We're free people. We belong to no one.
Two said: Such spirit. I wager fifteen quatloos that he is untrainable.
Three said: Twenty quatloos that all three are untrainable.
Two said: Five thousand quatloos that the newcomers will have to be destroyed.
One said: Accepted. Mark them, Galt.
Galt's eyes go bright, and the badges on the collars turn red.
Galt said: You now bear the mark of a fine herd. But I must warn you, any further disobedience now that you are full-fledged thralls will be punishable by death.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Mister Spock, it just doesn't make sense they could have come this far. If there's any chance at all it is to continue to search in the area they were lost.
Spock said: We searched the area.
Scott said: It's always possible to miss something.
Spock said: Such as a failure in the transporter mechanism?
Scott said: No, sir. There was no sign of failure.
Spock said: There was no sign of them in the area of Gamma Two.
Mccoy said: If they weren't there it's ridiculous to think they could still be alive. Not after all this time.
Spock said: In that case, Doctor, we have nothing to lose by pursuing our present course.
Scene: Ruins.
Shahna has taken Kirk for a run.
Kirk said: Slow down. Slow down. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. We've covered over two miles. Can we take a breather? A rest?
Shahna said: (not at all out of breath) Oh. Very well. You are tired.
Kirk said: Oh. well, it's good to get away from that development area, even for a while. Shahna, why do the Providers, why do they like to watch others being hurt, killed?
Shahna said: That is the way.
Kirk said: Their voices sound mechanical. Are they computers?
Shahna said: Computers?
Kirk said: You've seen them. Do they have bodies?
Shahna said: Not such as ours.
Kirk said: What is this place?
Shahna said: It is not used.
Kirk said: It's very old. Does it have a name? Shahna, could it have been a city for the Providers?
Shahna said: I do not think it is well to ask such things.
Kirk said: They do have bodies, or did have.
Shahna said: One does not talk of such things.
Kirk said: Very pretty country. Very much like my home planet, Earth.
Shahna said: Planet?
Stands close to her back, hands on her shoulders, so he can whisper in her ear.
Kirk said: Where I was born. Shahna, don't you ever look at the night sky? The lights up there?
Shahna said: I have looked at them.
Kirk said: Well, those are stars. And around them are planets. And there are people that live on them, Just like us.
Shahna said: How can one live on a flicker of light?
Kirk said: From Earth, Triskelion's three suns are just a flicker of light. Actually, this is the darkest planet I've ever seen.
Shahna said: Dark? But all is lighted. Here, the chambers.
Kirk said: The thralls have no freedom, Shahna. You don't think or do anything but what the Providers tell you.
Shahna said: What else would one do?
Kirk said: Love, for one thing.
Shahna said: What is love?
Kirk said: Love is the most important thing on Earth. Especially to a man and a woman.
Shahna said: We, too, have mates. When it is time to increase the herd, my Provider will select one for me.
Kirk said: On Earth, we select our own mate. Someone we care for. On Earth, men and women live together, help each other, make each other happy.
Shahna said: I do not think your words are allowed.
Kirk said: All right. All right. Tell me about the Providers. What do they look like? Where do they live?
Shahna said: I have never seen them, but they are said not to be like us. They stay in
Her collar lights up, and Kirk holds her tight while she writhes in pain.
Kirk said: Stop it. Stop it! I'm responsible! I made her talk! Stop it! You're killing her! She did nothing wrong! It was my fault. If you want to punish someone, punish me! Please.
One said: Is that what you humans call compassion? It is interesting, but it has no value here. You present many interesting aspects, Captain, but you must learn obedience. Then you will be an excellent thrall.
Shahna's collar stops glowing.
Kirk said: It's all right. It's all right. You can stop crying now, Shahna. It's all right.
Shahna said: You risked bringing their anger on yourself. Why did you do it?
Kirk said: It's the custom of my people to help one another when we're in trouble.
He kisses her.
Shahna said: And this. Is this also helping?
Kirk said: You could call it that.
Shahna said: Please, help me once again. (another kiss) I did not know it could be like this between people. Is it always so in the place you come from?
Galt said: (popping out of thin air) Captain, you do indeed present many surprises. Because you have amused the Providers, there will be no punishment. Return to your quarters.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Mister Scott, can we manage anything faster than warp six?
Scott said: It's my opinion that we've gone too far as it is, sir.
Mccoy said: He's right, Spock. We've lost Jim and the others on Gamma Two. Now you've dragged us a dozen light years on some wild hunch that
Spock said: Doctor, I do not respond to hunches. No transporter malfunction was responsible for the disappearance. They were not within the Gamma system. A focused beam of extremely high-intensity light was directed into the Gamma system from the trinary system we are now approaching. No known natural phenomena could have caused that beam. Does that clarify the situation?
Mccoy said: No, it doesn't. It's still a fancy way of saying that you're playing a hunch. well, my hunch is that they're back on Gamma Two dead or alive and I still want another search.
Scott said: Doctor McCoy speaks for me, too, sir.
Spock said: I see. (pause) Gentlemen, I am in command of this vessel, and we shall continue on our present course. (conspiratorial whisper) Unless it is your intention to declare a mutiny.
SCOTT; Mister Spock!
Mccoy said: Who said anything about a mutiny, you stubborn, pointed-eared. All right. If we don't find them here, do we still have another search on Gamma Two?
Spock said: Agreed. Mister Scott, could you manage warp seven?
Scott said: I would be more than content to do so, sir, and maybe a wee bit more.
Spock said: Ensign, warp seven.
Scene: Kirk's cell.
Shahna brings a nourishment tray.
Kirk said: You're disturbed about what happened today.
Shahna said: Yes. You have made me feel strangely. If it were allowed, I would ask that you have another drill thrall. KIRK: I wouldn't like that, Shahna. I wouldn't like that at all.
He kisses her, then punches her to knock her out.
Kirk said: I'm sorry, Shahna. (takes the magnetic key and unlocks his door)
Scene: Accommodation area.
Kirk opens Chekov's cell. Tamoon is bound and gagged.
Chekov said: This is going to kill our romance.
They let Uhura out.
Kirk said: What about Lars?
Uhura said: He's gone to report me. I said I didn't like the food.
Kirk said: I think Galt is the only one who controls these collars. If we can find the phaser that I threw at Lars, we can use the circuits to short out these collars.
Chekov said: (pointing to an exit) Captain.
Scene: Combat area.
Galt appears, and punishment is administered. ONE [OC]: Only a reminder. You Earth people are most unusual, most stimulating.
Scene: Bridge.
Haines said: Standard orbit. SPOCK: Sensors indicate only one concentration of life forms on the planet, on the lower hemisphere. Humanoid readings.
Mccoy said: Well, at least that gives our landing force a starting point.
Spock said: There will be no landing force, Doctor. Assuming the captain and the others are still alive, it would be unwise to endanger them by beaming down a large contingent.
Mccoy said: Well we're not going to leave them there while we just sit and wait.
Spock said: Interesting. No power source. It may be shielded.
Mccoy said: And it may be just a wild goose chase like we've been telling you.
Spock said: I shall beam down, Doctor. If I am unable to communicate, a landing party may be necessary.
Mccoy said: Well, Mister Spock, if you're going into the lion's den, you'll need a medical officer.
Spock said: Daniel, as I recall, had only his faith. But I welcome your company, Doctor. Mister Scott, you'll be in command.
Scott said: Aye, sir.
But the turbolift doors shut before Spock and McCoy can leave the bridge, and the lights start flashing.
One said: No, Mister Spock, you will not leave the ship.
Scene: Combat area.
One said: None of your control systems will operate. MCCOY [OC]: What the devil's going on?
Kirk said: Spock? Spock!
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Spock?
Scene: Combat area.
Kirk said: Welcome to Triskelion, gentlemen.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: By now it must be obvious to you that you have been expected.
Scott said: What the voice said was true, sir. Nothing is functioning.
One said: Commendations, gentlemen. Your ingenuity in discovering the whereabouts of your companions is noteworthy.
Kirk said: What you're hearing, gentlemen, is a Provider.
One said: We are known to the thralls as Providers because we provide for all their needs. The term is easier for their limited mental abilities to comprehend.
Scene: Combat area.
Kirk said: Providing for all their needs means using thralls, people stolen from other parts of the galaxy
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: To fight each other, and the Providers gamble on the winner.
Spock said: Fascinating.
Kirk said: But these Providers haven't the courage to show themselves.
One said: Your species has great curiosity.
Scene: Combat area.
One said: We knew that. You are interesting in many ways.
Kirk said: But you are afraid.
Scene: Bridge.
One said: You present no danger while you wear the collar
Scene: Combat area.
One said: And you wear it as long as you live.
Kirk said: Then show yourselves.
One said: There is no objection.
Scene: Cavern.
It is vast, obviously constructed with ceiling lights and a power plant in the background. In the foreground is a transparent dome with three yellow brains in it.
Kirk said: The power source. Shielded by solid rock.
One said: (a brain pulsates red) We are one thousand of your metres beneath the surface.
Kirk said: Primary mental evolution. Incredible.
Two said: (pulsing green) That is not true, Captain. Once we had humanoid form, but we evolved beyond it.
Three said: (yellow) Through eons of devoting ourselves exclusively to intellectual pursuits, we became the physically simple, mentally superior creatures you see before you.
Kirk said: A species that enslaves other beings is hardly superior, mentally or otherwise.
One said: The thralls are necessary to the games. We have found athletic competitions our only challenge, the only thing which furnishes us with purpose.
Kirk said: It's an unproductive purpose, unworthy of your intellect.
One said: We use only inferior beings.
Kirk said: We have found that all life forms in the galaxy are capable of superior development. Perhaps you're not as evolved as you believe.
Three said: An interesting speculation, Captain. You and your people are most challenging.
Two said: Yes, most challenging. It was hoped that such new blood would stimulate our stock of thralls. How unfortunate that you must be destroyed.
Kirk said: Our destruction will result only in your own. You may control the Enterprise, but you cannot match the force of the entire Federation.
One said: Your ship will be destroyed by a magnetic storm. No communications with your base will be possible. Your fate will remain a mystery to your people.
Kirk said: And you call yourselves superior! You're murderers without the spirit to really wager for the lives you take.
One said: Wager? Explain yourself, Captain.
Kirk said: My people pride themselves on being the greatest, most successful gamblers in the universe. We compete for everything. Power, fame, women, everything we desire, and it is our nature to win. And for proof, I offer you our exploration of this galaxy.
Three said: We are aware of your competitive abilities, Captain.
Kirk said: Well, then, I wager that with weapons of your own choice, right here and now, my people can overcome an equal number of thralls set against us.
Three said: A hundred quatloos on the newcomers.
One said: Four hundred quatloos against the newcomers.
Two said: Two hundred quatloos against!
Three said: Five hundred for the newcomers. Contest by multiple elimination.
Kirk said: Wait! Wait! Hear me! We can't wager for trifles like quatloos. The stakes must be higher.
One said: Name your stakes, Captain.
Kirk said: If we win, the Enterprise and its crew leaves here in safety. Further more, all the thralls on the planet must be freed.
Two said: Anarchy. They would starve.
Kirk said: You will educate and train them to establish a normal self-governing culture.
Three said: Thralls govern themselves? Ridiculous!
Kirk said: We have done the same with cultures throughout the galaxy. Are you willing to admit that we can do something you can't?
Two said: There is nothing we cannot do!
One said: And if you lose, Captain?
Kirk said: If we lose? We will remain here, the entire crew of the Enterprise. The most stubborn, determined competitors in the universe. We'll become thralls, enter your games, obey your orders without rebellion. You'll be assured of generations of the most exciting wagering you've ever had.
One said: Your stakes are indeed high, Captain.
Kirk said: Not for true gamesters.
Three said: We will accept your stakes on one condition.
Kirk said: Name it.
One said: As leader of your people, your spirit seems most indomitable. We suggest you alone, pitted against three contestants of our choosing.
Kirk said: Three against one? Those are pretty high odds.
Two said: Not for true gamesters, Captain.
Kirk said: Your, your terms are unfair.
One said: On the contrary, they're extremely fair, since your alternative is death.
KIRK; well, in that case, I'll accept your terms.
One said: Galt will prepare you.
Scene: Combat area.
Lars has a net, Kloog has his whip, and an Andorian has the pole weapon, same as Kirk.
One said: Because you wager your skill for all your people, they will be permitted to watch the outcome of the game on the ship's viewscreen.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Mister Spock, look!
One said: Captain, you will defend. Thralls must stay in the blue area. You will take the yellow. Touching an opposing colour deprives a contestant of one weapon. An opponent must be killed to be removed from the game. If only wounded, he is replaced by a fresh thrall. Is that clear, Captain?
Scene: Combat area.
Kirk said: Yes, that's clear.
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: What in the name of heaven is this?
Scott said: Heaven's got very little to do with this.
Scene: Combat area.
So the fight begins, and everyone puts their feet outside their allotted colours from time to time. Kirk manages to trip up or push over each of his three opponents several times. Eventually he throws his pole into Kloog's belly then picks up a dagger to defend himself with. Lars traps his hand in the net, but Kirk ducks as the Andorian throws his pole. Now the two fight with just the daggers, until Kirk throws the Andorian. Galt sees that he is only injured, and orders in his replacement.
Galt said: Shahna.
She enters the area with a pole.
Shahna said: You lied. Everything you said.
She trips him, but he grabs the pole and pulls her down to the point of his dagger. They both hesitate, break free, and she gets him at her mercy. Again there is hesitation, so Kirk uses his legs to grab her and this time puts the blade firmly to her throat.
Shahna said: The thralls surrender!
Kirk lets her go.
One said: You have won, Captain Kirk, unfortunately. However, the terms of the wager will be honoured. You are free. Remove your collars.
They come off easily.
Kirk said: The thralls will be trained?
One said: They will be trained. We have said it.
Kirk said: I think you'll find it a much more exciting game than the one you've been playing. I'm sorry, Shahna. I didn't lie. I did what was necessary. Someday, I hope you'll understand.
Shahna said: I understand, a little. You will leave us now?
KIRK; Yes.
Shahna said: To go back to the lights in the sky?
KIRK; Yes.
Shahna said: I would like to go to those lights with you. Take me?
Kirk said: I can't.
Shahna said: Then teach me how, and I will follow you.
KIRK; There's so much you must learn here first. The Providers will teach you. Learn it, Shahna. all your people must learn before you can reach for the stars. Shahna. he gives her a farewell kiss Scotty!
Scott said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Beam us up.
They disappear in a twinkle.
Shahna said: Goodbye, Jim Kirk. I will learn, and watch the lights in the sky, and remember.