The Trouble With Tribbles
Stardate: 4523.3
Original Airdate: 29 Dec, 1967
Scene: Briefing room.
Spock said: Deep Space Station K7 now within sensor range, Captain.
Kirk said: Good. Mister Chekov, this flight is supposed to provide both experience and knowledge. How close will we come to the Klingon outpost if we continue on our present course?
Chekov said: One parsec, sir. Close enough to smell them.
Spock said: That is illogical, Ensign. Odours cannot travel through the vacuum of space.
Chekov said: I was making a little joke, sir.
Spock said: Extremely little, Ensign.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, immediate past history of the quadrant?
Spock said: Under dispute between the two parties since initial contact. The battle of Donatu Five was fought near here twenty three solar years ago. Inconclusive.
Kirk said: Analysis of disputed area?
Spock said: Undeveloped. Sherman's Planet is claimed by both sides, our Federation and the Klingon Empire. We do have the better claim.
Chekov said: The area was first mapped by the famous Russian astronomer Ivan Borkoff almost two hundred
Kirk said: John Burke.
Chekov said: Burke, sir? I don't think so. I'm sure it was
Spock said: John Burke was the Chief Astronomer at the Royal Academy in old Britain at the time.
Chekov said: Oh, Royal Academy. Well
Kirk said: is the rest of your history that faulty, Ensign? Key points of dispute?
Chekov said: Under terms of the Organian Peace Treaty, one side or the other must prove it can develop the planet most efficiently.
Kirk said: And unfortunately, though the Klingons are brutal and aggressive, they are most efficient.
Chekov said: I remember once Peter the Great had that problem like that. The
Uhura said: Captain?
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Uhura said: I'm picking up a subspace distress call. Priority channel. It's from Space Station K7.
Kirk said: Go to warp factor six.
Chekov said: Code One emergency. That's a disaster call.
Uhura said: This is a Red Alert. Man your battle stations. All hands.
Captain's Log, stardate 4523.3. Deep Space Station K7 has issued a priority one call. More than an emergency, it signals near or total disaster. We can only assume the Klingons have attacked the station. We're going in armed for battle.
]Bridge]
Chekov said: Main phasers armed and ready, sir.
The space station is on the main viewer, looking intact.
Chekov said: But there's nothing there. Just the station.
Kirk said: Priority One distress call, and it's just absolutely peaceful. Lieutenant Uhura, break subspace silence.
Uhura said: Aye, sir. The channel's open, sir.
Kirk said: Space Station K7, this is Captain Kirk of the Enterprise. What is your emergency?
Lurry said: This is Mister Lurry, manager of K7. I must apologise for the distress call.
Kirk said: Mister Lurry, you issued a Priority One distress call. State the nature of your emergency.
Lurry said: Well, perhaps you better beam over. I'll try to explain.
Kirk said: You'll try to explain. You'd better be prepared to do more than that. Kirk out. Mister Spock, I'll need your help. Mister Chekov, maintain battle readiness. Lieutenant Uhura, see that the transporter room is standing by.
Uhura said: Aye, sir. Transporter room, stand by.
Scene: Lurry's office.
Kirk and Spock arrive in the two man transporter alcove
Kirk said: Mister Lurry, if there's no emergency, why did you issue a priority one distress call?
Baris said: That was my order, Captain.
Lurry said: Captain Kirk, this is Nilz Baris. He's out from Earth to take charge of the development project on Sherman's Planet.
Kirk said: And that gives you the authority to put an entire quadrant on defence alert?
Darvin said: Mister Baris is the Federation Undersecretary in Charge of Agricultural Affairs in this quadrant.
SPOCK; That gives him the authority.
Kirk said: Oh.
Baris said: This is my assistant Arne Darvin.
Kirk said: And this is my first officer Mister Spock.
Lurry said: Mister Spock.
Baris said: And now Captain, I want all available security guards. I want them posted around the storage compartments.
Kirk said: Storage compartments? Storage compartments?
Darvin said: The storage compartments containing the quadrotriticale.
Kirk said: What? What? What's quadrotriticale? (Lurry hands him a small packet) Wheat. So what?
Baris said: Quadrotriticale is not wheat, Captain. Of course, I wouldn't expect you or Mister Spock to know about such things, but quadrotriticale is a rather
Spock said: Quadrotriticale is a high-yield grain, a four-lobed hybrid of wheat and rye. A perennial, also, I believe. Its root grain, triticale, can trace its ancestry all the way back to twentieth century Canada
Kirk said: Mister Spock, you've made your point.
Lurry said: Quadrotriticale is the only earth grain that grows on Sherman's Planet. We have several tons of it here on the station. It's very important that grain gets to Sherman's Planet safely. Mister Baris thinks that Klingon agents may try to sabotage it.
Kirk said: You issued a priority one distress call for a couple of tons of wheat?
Darvin said: Quadrotriticale!
Baris said: Of course, Captain, I realise that
Kirk said: Mister Baris, you summoned the Enterprise without an emergency. You'll take full responsibility for it.
Baris said: What do you mean?
Spock said: Misuse of the Priority One channels is a Federation offence.
Baris said: I did not misuse the Priority One channel. I want that grain protected.
Lurry said: Captain, couldn't you at least post a couple of guards? We do have a large number of ships passing through.
Spock said: It would seem a logical precaution, Captain. The Sherman's Planet affair is of extreme importance to the Federation.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise.
Uhura said: Enterprise here.
Kirk said: Secure from general quarters. And beam down two, and only two, security guards. Have them report to Mister Lurry. Authorise shore leave for all off-duty personnel.
Uhura said: Yes, Captain.
Kirk said: Kirk out.
Baris said: Captain Kirk, how dare you authorise a mere two men for a project of this importance? Starfleet Command
Kirk said: I have never questioned the orders or the intelligence of any representative of the Federation. Until now.
storms out of the office
{K7 Bar]
Wherever humanoids may travel, someone will set up a bar to have pretty females serve intoxicating beverages. K7 is no exception.;
Kirk said: Summoning a starship on a priority A-1 channel to guard some storage compartments. Storage compartments of wheat.
Spock said: Nevertheless Captain, the Klingons would not enjoy seeing us successfully develop Sherman's Planet.
Kirk said: I guess not.
downs his drink in one and heads for the door, where they meet Chekov and Uhura coming in.
Kirk said: I see you didn't waste time taking your shore leave.
Uhura said: (coldly) How often do I get shore leave?
Chekov said: She wants to shop, and I thought I would help her.
Jones said: (entering) Oh, excuse me. Excuse me.
Kirk said: (shows Chekov the packet of wheat) Mister Chekov, what do you make of this?
Chekov said: Oh, quadrotriticale. I've read about this, but I've never seen any before.
Kirk said: Does everybody know about this wheat but me?
Chekov said: Not everyone, Captain. It's a Russian invention.
Kirk said: Ah.
Kirk and Spock leave.
Barman said: I don't want any. I told you before, and I'm telling you again I don't want any more Spican flame gems. Thanks to you, I have enough Spican flame gems to last me a lifetime.
Jones said: How sad for you, my friend. You won't find a finer stone anywhere. But I have something better. Surely you want some Antarian glow water.
Barman said: I use that to polish the flame gems.
Jones said: You're a difficult man to reach, but I have something from the far reaches of the galaxy. Surely you want
from yet another pocket, the trader pulls a what looks like a ball of fluff.
Barman said: Not at your price.
Uhura said: What is it? Is it alive? May I hold it?
Jones puts it in her hand and it starts purring
Uhura said: Oh, it's adorable. What is it?
Jones said: What is it? Why, lovely lady, it's a tribble.
Uhura said: A tribble?
Jones said: Only the sweetest creature known to man, excepting, of course, your lovely self.
Uhura said: Oh, it's purring. Listen, it's purring.
Jones said: It's only saying that it likes you.
Uhura said: Are you selling them?
Barman said: That's what we're trying to decide right now.
Jones said: My friend, 10 credits apiece is a very reasonable price. Now you can see for yourself how much the lovely little lady appreciates the finer things.
Barman said: One credit apiece.
Chekov said: He won't bite, will he?
Jones said: Sir, transporting harmful animals from one planet to another is against regulations, or weren't you aware of that? Besides, tribbles have no teeth.
Barman said: All right. I'll double my offer 2 credits.
Jones said: Twice nothing is still nothing.
Uhura said: If you're not going to take him, I'm going to take him. I think he's cute.
Barman said: Four credits.
Jones said: Is that an offer or a joke?
Barman said: That's my offer.
Jones said: That's a joke.
Barman said: Five?
Jones said: You're an honest man. I'll tell you what I'm going to do I'm going to lessen my price to eight and a half credits.
Barman said: You're talking yourself out of a deal, friend. Six credits. Not a credit more.
Jones said: Seven and a half. Seven? All right, you robber, six credits.
Barman said: Done. When can I have them?
Jones said: Right away.
Uhura said: All right, what are you selling them for?
Barman said: Well, let me see, little lady. Six credits. Figure a reasonable mark-up for a reasonable profit, say ten percent mark-up. Ten credits.
Jones said: Thief.
Barman said: In fact, I'll sell you this one.
the tribble is eating grain spilt from the packet Kirk gave Chekov
Chekov said: Hey! He's eating my grain.
Barman said: That'll be ten credits.
Jones said: That happens to be my sample, and I'll do with it as I please. And I please to give it to the lovely lady.
Uhura said: Oh, I couldn't. Could I?
Jones said: I insist.
Barman said: What are you trying to do, ruin the market?
Jones said: Once this lovely little lady starts to show this precious little darling around, you won't be able to keep up with them.
Scene: Briefing room.
Kirk said: Yes, what is it?
Uhura said: Message from Starfleet, Captain. Priority channel. Admiral Fitzpatrick speaking.
Kirk said: Put it on visual, Lieutenant.
Admiral said: Captain Kirk?
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Admiral said: Captain, it is not necessary to remind you of the importance to the Federation of Sherman's Planet. The key to our winning of this planet is the grain quadrotriticale. The shipment of it must be protected. Effective immediately, you will render any aid and assistance which Undersecretary Baris may require. The safety of the grain and the project is your responsibility. Starfleet out.
Kirk said: Now, that's just lovely.
Spock said: But not totally unexpected.
Uhura said: Captain Kirk! Captain Kirk!
Kirk said: Yes, Lieutenant, what is it?
Uhura said: Sensors are picking up a Klingon battle cruiser rapidly closing on the station.
Kirk said: Go to Red Alert. Notify Mister Lurry. We'll be right up.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: What is the position of the Klingon ship?
Chekov said: A hundred kilometres off K7. It's just sitting there.
Uhura said: Captain, I have Mister Lurry.
Kirk said: Put him on visual.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Mister Lurry, there's a Klingon warship hanging one hundred kilometres off your station.
Lurry said: I don't think the Klingons are planning to attack us.
Kirk said: Why not?
Lurry said: Because at this moment the captain of the Klingon ship is sitting right here in my office.
Kirk said: Cancel Red Alert. We'll beam right down.
Uhura said: Security, cancel Red Alert.
Captain's log, stardate 4524.2. A Klingon warship is hovering only a hundred kilometres from Deep Space Station K7 while its captain waits in the station manager's office. Their intentions are unknown.
Scene: Lurry's office.
False smiles all round as Kirk and Spock are greeted by a Klingon who very closely resembles the Squire of Gothos...
Koloth said: Ah, my dear Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: My dear Captain Koloth.
Koloth said: Let me assure you that my intentions are peaceful. As I've already told Mister Lurry, the purpose of my presence is to invoke shore leave rights.
Kirk said: Shore leave?
Koloth said: Captain, we Klingons are not as luxury-minded as you Earthers. We do not equip our ships with, how shall I say it, non-essentials. (makes an hour-glass gesture with his hands)
Korax said: We have been in space for five months. What we choose as recreation is our own business.
Koloth said: I might also add that under terms of the Organian Peace Treaty, you cannot refuse us.
Kirk said: Yes, well, I don't make those decisions. Mister Lurry is in charge of those matters.
Lurry said: Captain, may I speak to you a minute? (takes him aside) Look, I don't want them here, but I don't have the authority to refuse.
Kirk said: Well, I have the authority to act, and I'm going to use it. My dear Captain Koloth, you may indeed bring your men down on shore leave, but only twelve at a time. And I assure you, for every man you bring down here, I shall have one security guard. There will be no trouble.
Koloth said: Captain Kirk, there's been no formal declaration of hostilities between our two respective governments. So, naturally, our relationship will be a peaceful one.
Kirk said: Let us both take steps to keep it that way.
Koloth said: Of course.
Scene: Rec room.
Scott is at a monitor, reading, when Spock and Kirk enter.
Kirk said: Another technical journal, Scotty?
Scott said: Aye.
Kirk said: Don't you ever relax?
Scott said: I am relaxing.
There is a crowd at a long table, and there are purring sounds.
Mccoy said: How long have you had that thing, Lieutenant?
Uhura said: Since yesterday, Doctor. This morning, I found out that he, I mean she, had had babies.
Mccoy said: Well, in that case, you got a bargain.
Kirk said: You running a nursery, Lieutenant?
Uhura said: Oh, Captain. Well, I hadn't intended to, sir, but the tribble had other plans.
Kirk said: Did you get this at the space station?
Uhura said: Yes, sir.
Spock said: (stroking a tribble) A most curious creature, Captain. Its trilling seems to have a tranquillising effect on the human nervous system. Fortunately, of course, I am immune to its effect.
Everyone stares, he suddenly realises what he is doing, and puts it down. Spock and Kirk leave.
Mccoy said: Lieutenant, do you mind if I take one of these down to the lab to see what makes it tick?
Uhura said: Well, all right, Doctor, but if you're going to dissect it, I don't want to know about it.
Mccoy said: I won't harm a hair on its head, wherever that is.
Freeman said: Say, Lieutenant. Seeing as you're giving them away, can I have one?
Uhura said: Sure, why not? I think they're old enough. (to all) Go ahead.
Scene: Corridor.
Chekov said: Bridge to Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Chekov said: Mister Baris waiting is on channel E to speak to you, sir.
Kirk said: Pipe it down here will you, Mister Chekov.
Chekov said: Aye, sir. Mister Baris is coming on.
Kirk said: Yes, Mister Baris. What can I do for you?
Scene: Lurry's office.
Baris said: Kirk, this station is swarming with Klingons.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: I was not aware, Mister Baris, that twelve Klingons constitutes a swarm.
Scene: Lurry's office.
Baris said: Captain Kirk, there are Klingon soldiers on this station. Now, I want you to keep that grain safe.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: Mister Baris, I have guards around the grain. I have guards around the Klingons. The only reason those guards are there is because Starfleet wants them there. As for what you want (pauses at a look from Spock) It has been noted and logged. Kirk out.
Spock said: Captain, may I ask where you'll be?
Kirk said: Sickbay with a headache.
Scene: Sickbay.
There are eleven fluffy tribbles of various sizes and colour in a large container.
Mccoy said: Hi, Jim.
Kirk said: Bones, what have you got for a headache?
Mccoy said: Let me guess. Klingons? Baris?
Kirk said: Both. How many of these did Uhura give you?
Mccoy said: Just one.
Kirk said: But you've got, er, eleven.
Mccoy said: You noticed that, huh? Here. This ought to take care of it.
Kirk said: How do they? How do they?
Mccoy said: I haven't figured that out yet, but I can tell you this much. Almost fifty percent of the creature's metabolism is geared for reproduction. Do you know what you get if you feed a tribble too much?
Kirk said: A fat tribble.
Mccoy said: No. You get a bunch of hungry little tribbles.
Kirk said: Well, Bones, all I can suggest is you open up a maternity ward.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: All you men going on shore leave to stay in groups. Avoid trouble with the Klingons.
Scott said: I'll tell them before they go, sir.
Kirk said: Aren't you going on shore leave, Scotty?
Scott said: Why, no, sir.
Kirk said: I want you to go on shore leave. Make sure that everybody stays out of trouble.
Scott said: But, Captain. Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Scotty, enjoy yourself.
Scene: K7 Bar.
Business is good. Scott, Chekov and Freeman take the last vacant table. Two security men leave and Jones enters, whistling.
Jones said: Ah, friend. Can I offer you a charming little tribble?
Scott said: Uh, no, thanks.
Jones said: Oh. Perhaps one of you other gents?
No reply
Jones said: Ah, friend Klingon. Can I interest you in a harmless tribble?
The tribble screeches.
Korax said: Get it away from me.
Jones said: I'm sorry. I can't understand it. I've never seen them act this way before.
Korax said: Get out of here with that parasite.
Jones said: He's only a harmless little
Korax said: Take it away!
Jones said: Yes. Ah, my good friend. How would you like to enter another little transaction? This time, a tribble for a spot
Barman said: A tribble.
Jones said: Indeed.
Barman said: (starts producing tribbles from all over the place and putting them on the bar) A tribble?
The pretty lady in yellow brings our group their drinks.
Scott said: When are you going to get off that milk diet, lad?
Chekov said: This is vodka.
Scott said: Where I come from, that's soda pop. This is a drink for a man.
Chekov said: Scotch?
Scott said: Aye.
Chekov said: It was invented by a little old lady from Leningrad.
Korax goes over to the bar and shares his drink with Jones.
Korax said: The Earthers like those fuzzy things, don't they?
Jones said: Oh, yes.
Klingon said: Frankly, I never liked Earthers. They remind me of Regulan blood worms.
Chekov said: That Cossack.
Scott said: Easy, lad. You ought to be more forgiving.
Korax said: No. I just remembered. There is one Earthman who doesn't remind me of a Regulan blood worm. That's Kirk. A Regulan blood worm is soft and shapeless, but Kirk isn't soft. Kirk may be a swaggering, overbearing, tin-plated dictator with delusions of godhood, but he's not soft.
Chekov leaps to his feet
Scott said: Take it easy, lad. Everybody's entitled to an opinion.
Korax said: That's right, and if I think that Kirk is a Denebian slime devil, well that's my opinion too.
Scott said: Don't do it, mister, and that's an order.
Chekov said: You heard what he called the captain.
Scott said: Forget it. It's not worth fighting for. We're big enough to take a few insults. Now, drink your drink.
swaps Chekov's vodka for Freeman's red wine.
Korax said: Of course, I'd say that Captain Kirk deserves his ship. We like the Enterprise. We, we really do. That sagging old rust bucket is designed like a garbage scow. Half the quadrant knows it. That's why they're learning to speak Klingonese.
Chekov said: Mister Scott!
Scott said: Laddie, don't you think you should rephrase that?
Korax said: You're right, I should. I didn't mean to say that the Enterprise should be hauling garbage. I meant to say that it should be hauled away as garbage.
There's a fight, of course. Scott's first right cross sends Korax flying over a table. After that, it's the Klingons versus Starfleet, with the barman beating a retreat and Jones taking the opportunity to help himself to drinks from the dispensing machine. Finally he decides to leave with his spoils and is about to enjoy his last glass when the Security guards rush in followed by the Barman, who takes the glass just before it reaches Jones' lips. So he takes another out of his pocket instead.
Captain's Log, stardate 4525.6. A small disturbance between the Klingon crew and members of the Enterprise crew has broken out aboard Space Station K7. I am forced to cancel shore leave for both ships.
Scene: Briefing room.
Ten men are lined up. Chekov has a nice bruise on his cheek.
Kirk said: I want to know who started it. I'm waiting. Freeman, who started the fight?
Freeman said: I don't know, sir.
Kirk said: All right. Chekov. I know you. You started it, didn't you?
Chekov said: No, sir, I didn't.
Kirk said: Who did?
Chekov said: I don't know, sir.
Kirk said: I don't know, sir. I want to know who threw the first punch. All right. You're all confined to quarters until I find out who started it. Dismissed. (the men file out) Scotty, not you. You were supposed to prevent trouble, Mister Scott.
Scott said: Aye, Captain.
Kirk said: Who threw the first punch, Scotty?
Scott said: Um.
Kirk said: Mister Scott?
Scott said: I did, Captain.
Kirk said: You did, Mister Scott? What caused it, Scotty?
Scott said: They insulted us, sir.
Kirk said: Must have been some insult.
Scott said: Aye, it was.
Kirk said: You threw the first punch.
Scott said: Aye. Chekov wanted to, but I held him back.
Kirk said: You held? Why did Chekov want to start a fight?
Scott said: Well, the Klingon, sir. Is this off the record?
Kirk said: No, this is not off the record.
Scott said: Well, Captain, the Klingons called you, uh a tin-plated, overbearing, swaggering dictator with delusions of godhood.
Kirk said: Is that all?
Scott said: No, sir. They also compared you with a Denebian slime devil.
Kirk said: I see.
Scott said: And then they said you
Kirk said: I get the picture, Scotty.
Scott said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: After they said all this, that's when you hit the Klingons?
Scott said: No, sir.
Kirk said: No?
Scott said: No, I didn't. You told us to avoid trouble.
Kirk said: Oh, yes.
Scott said: And I didn't see that it was worth fighting about. After all, we're big enough to take a few insults. Aren't we?
Kirk said: What was it they said that started the fight?
Scott said: They called the Enterprise a garbage scow, sir.
Kirk said: I see. And that's when you hit the Klingons?
Scott said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: You hit the Klingons because they insulted the Enterprise, not because they
Scott said: Well, sir, this was a matter of pride.
Kirk said: All right, Scotty. Dismissed. Scotty, you're restricted to quarters until further notice.
Scott said: (big grin) Yes, sir. Thank you, sir. That'll give me a chance to catch up on my technical journals.
Scene: Sickbay.
There are a lot more than eleven tribbles now.
Mccoy said: What's the matter, Spock?
Spock said: There's something disquieting about these creatures.
Mccoy said: Don't tell me you've got a feeling.
Spock said: Don't be insulting, Doctor. They remind me of the lilies of the field. They toil not, neither do they spin. But they seem to eat a great deal. I see no practical use for them.
Mccoy said: Does everything have to have a practical use for you? They're nice, soft, and furry, and they make a pleasant sound.
Spock said: So would an ermine violin, but I see no advantage in having one.
Mccoy said: It's a human characteristic to love little animals, especially if they're attractive in some way.
Spock said: Doctor, I am well aware of human characteristics. I am frequently inundated by them, but I've trained myself to put up with practically anything.
Mccoy said: Spock, I don't know too much about these little tribbles yet, but there's one thing that I have discovered.
Spock said: What is that, Doctor?
Mccoy said: I like them better than I like you.
Spock said: Doctor?
Mccoy said: Yes?
Spock said: They do have one redeeming characteristic.
Mccoy said: What's that?
Spock said: They do not talk too much. If you'll excuse me, sir.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk walks to his chair, preoccupied by his last conversation. When he sits, there is a squeak. He has sat on a large tribble. Then he notices that there are fluffy balls everywhere.
Kirk said: Doctor McCoy, would you mind coming up to the bridge? (he takes a walk around then) Lieutenant Uhura, how did all these tribbles get on the bridge?
Uhura said: I don't know, sir. They do seem to be all over the ship.
McCoy enters, stroking a tribble.
Kirk said: Doctor McCoy.
Mccoy said: Yes? Did you want to see me, Jim? Don't look at me. It's the tribbles who are breeding. If we don't get them off this ship, we're going to be hip deep in them.
Kirk said: Explain that.
Mccoy said: The nearest thing I can figure out is they're born pregnant, which seems to be quite a time saver.
Kirk said: I know, but really
Mccoy said: And from my observations, it seems they're bisexual, reproducing at will. And, brother, have they got a lot of will.
Spock said: Captain, I am forced to agree with the doctor. I've been running computations on their rate of reproduction. The figures are taking an alarming direction. They're consuming our supplies and returning nothing.
Uhura said: But they do give us something, Mister Spock. They give us love. Well, Cyrano Jones says a tribble is the only love that money can buy.
Kirk said: Too much of anything, Lieutenant, even love, isn't necessarily a good thing.
Uhura said: Yes, Captain.
Kirk said: Get the maintenance crew to clean up the entire ship, and then contact Mister Lurry and tell him I'm beaming down.
Uhura said: Aye, aye.
Kirk said: Have him find Cyrano Jones and hold him.
Uhura said: Aye.
Kirk said: And get these tribbles off the bridge.
Uhura said: Aye, aye, Captain.
Scene: Lurry's office.
Jones said: Captain Kirk, I'm mystified at your tone of voice. I've done nothing to warrant such severe treatment.
Kirk said: Oh, really?
Spock said: Surely you must have realised what would happen if you removed the tribbles from their predator-filled environment into an environment where their natural multiplicative proclivities would have no restraining factors.
Jones said: Of course. What did you say?
Spock said: By removing the tribbles from their natural habitat, you have, so to speak, removed the cork from the bottle and allowed the genie to escape.
Jones said: If by that, you mean do they breed quickly? Of course, that's how I maintain my stock. Breeding animals is not against regulations, only breeding dangerous ones. And tribbles are not dangerous.
Kirk said: Just incredibly prolific.
Jones said: Precisely, and at six credits a head, well, that is, a body, it mounts up. Now if you'll excuse me.
Kirk said: You should sell an instruction and maintenance manual for this thing.
Jones said: If I did, what would happen to man's search for knowledge? Well, I must be tending my ship. Au revoir.
He meets Baris and Darvin at the door.
Darvin said: Go ahead, sir. Tell him.
Baris said: Captain Kirk, I consider your security measures a disgrace. In my opinion, you have taken this important project far too lightly.
Kirk said: On the contrary, sir. I think of this project as very important. It is you I take lightly.
Baris said: I am going to report fully to the proper authorities that you have given free and complete access to this station to a man who is quite probably a Klingon agent.
Kirk said: That's a serious charge. To whom are you referring?
Baris said: To that man who just walked out of here.
Kirk said: Cyrano Jones, a Klingon agent?
Baris said: You heard me.
Kirk said: I heard you.
Spock said: He simply could not believe his ears.
Kirk said: What evidence do you have against Mister Jones?
Baris said: My assistant here has kept Mister Jones under close surveillance for quite some time, and his actions have been most suspicious. I believe he was involved in that little altercation between your men and the men from
Kirk said: Yes, yes. Go on. What else do you have?
Darvin said: Well Captain, I've checked his ship's log, and it seems that he was within the Klingon's sphere of influence less than four months ago.
Baris said: The man is an independent scout, Captain. It is quite possible he is also a Klingon spy.
Spock said: We have already checked on the background of Mister Cyrano Jones. He is a licensed asteroid locator and prospector. He's never broken the law, at least not severely. For the past seven years, with his one-man spaceship, he's obtained a marginal living by engaging in the buying and selling of rare merchandise, including, unfortunately, tribbles.
Baris said: But he is after my grain!
Kirk said: Do you have any proof of that?
Darvin said: You can't deny he's disrupted this station.
Kirk said: People have disrupted stations before without being Klingon agents. Sometimes, all they need is a title, Mister Baris. Unfortunately, disrupting a space station is not an offence. Now, if you'll excuse me, I have a ship to tend to. Au revoir.
Scene: Rec room.
There are tribbles on the walls, the floor, the tables, even as chess pieces. Kirk gets a tray from the food dispenser. It has tribbles on it.
Kirk said: My chicken sandwich and coffee. This is my chicken sandwich and coffee.
Spock said: Fascinating.
Kirk said: I want these off the ship. I don't care if it takes every man we've got, I want them off the ship.
Scott enters, carrying an armful of fluff.
Scott said: They're into the machinery, all right, and they're probably in all the other food processors too.
Kirk said: How?
Scott said: Probably through one of the air vents.
Spock said: Captain, there are vents of that type on the space station.
Kirk said: And in the storage compartments. (goes to a table monitor) This is Kirk. Contact Manager Lurry and Nilz Baris. Have them meet us near the storage compartments. We're beaming down. Come on, Spock.
Scene: Transporter room.
The tribbles are all over the pads too. Kirk picks one up but there's nowhere else to put it.
Kirk said: Energise.
Scene: Lurry's office.
Lurry said: What's wrong?
Kirk said: Plenty, if what I think's happened has happened.
Scene: Storage compartments.
Kirk said: Is that door secure?
Guard said: Yes, sir. Nothing could get in.
Kirk said: Good. Open it.
Guard said: It's not working, sir. It seems to be stuck.
Kirk said: Here. Let me try it.
But he can't open it either, so he tried one of the overhead doors instead. That does open, and a whole load of tribbles fall out, burying the gallant Captain up to his shoulders. Spock examines one.
Spock said: They seem to be gorged.
Baris said: Gorged? On my grain? Kirk, I am going to hold you responsible. There must be thousands of them.
Kirk said: Hundreds of thousands.
Spock said: One million seven hundred seventy one thousand five hundred sixty one. That's assuming one tribble, multiplying with an average litter of ten, producing a new generation every twelve hours over a period of three days.
Kirk said: That's assuming they got here three days ago.
Spock said: And allowing for the amount of grain consumed and the volume of the storage compartment.
Baris said: Kirk, you should have known. You are responsible for turning the development project into a total disaster.
Kirk said: Mister Baris
Baris said: And I'm through being intimidated, Kirk. You have insulted me, you have ignored me, you've walked all over me. You have abused your authority, and you've rejected my requests. And this, this is the result. I'm going to hold you responsible.
Kirk said: Mister Baris, I'll hold you in irons if you don't shut up.
Mccoy said: Jim, I think I've got it. All we have to do is quit feeding them. We quit feeding them, they stop breeding.
Kirk said: Now he tells me.
Spock said: Captain this tribble is dead. And so are these.
Mccoy said: A lot of them are dead. A lot of them are alive, but they won't be for long.
Spock said: The logical assumption is that there is something in the grain.
Kirk said: Yes. Bones, I want the tribbles, the grain, everything analysed. I want to know what killed these tribbles.
Mccoy said: I haven't figured out what keeps them alive yet. All right, if I find out anything, I'll let you know. (leaves)
Baris said: That isn't going to do you any good, Kirk. This project is ruined, and Starfleet is going to hear about it. And when they do, they will have a board of inquiry and they will roast you alive. And I am going to be there, Kirk, to enjoy every minute of it.
Kirk said: Until that inquiry, I'm still the captain. And as Captain, I want two things done. First, find Cyrano Jones, and second (as another tribble hits him on the head) close that door.
Scene: Lurry's office.
A security guard is picking up tribbles.
Jones said: Really, Captain Kirk, I must protest this treatment.
Kirk said: Ah, Mister Jones, with an armful. A few questions.
Koloth said: Captain Kirk!
Kirk said: What do you want?
Koloth said: An official apology addressed to the Klingon High Command. I expect you to assume full responsibility for the persecution of Klingon nationals in this quadrant.
Kirk said: An apology?
Koloth said: Yes. You've harassed my men. You've treated them like criminals. You've been most uncourteous, Captain Kirk. If you wish to avoid a diplomatic incident
Baris said: No, Kirk. You can't let him. That will give them the wedge they need to claim Sherman's Planet.
Spock said: I believe that more than the word of an aggrieved Klingon commander would be necessary for that, Mister Baris.
Koloth said: Mister Spock, as far as Sherman's Planet is concerned, Captain Kirk has already given it to us.
Kirk said: Well, we'll see about that, but before I take any official action, I'd like to know Just what happened. Who put the tribbles in the quadrotriticale? What was in the grain that killed them?
Koloth said: Captain Kirk, before you go on, may I make a request?
Kirk said: Yes.
Koloth said: Can you get those things out of here?
The guards take Jones' tribbles from him. They get to the door as Darvin enters, and the tribbles shriek.
Spock said: Remarkable.
Kirk said: Hold on a minute. I thought you said tribbles liked everybody.
Jones said: They do. I can't understand it. The last time I saw one act this way was at the bar.
Kirk said: What was in the bar?
Jones said: Klingons. Him, for one. (points at Korax)
Kirk takes two tribbles from the guards and brings them near Korax. They shriek.
Kirk said: You're right, Mister Jones. They don't like Klingons. (McCoy enters) But they do like Vulcans. I didn't know you had it in you.
Spock said: Obviously tribbles are very perceptive creatures, Captain.
Kirk said: Obviously. Mister Baris, they like you. Well, there's no accounting for taste. (and back to Darvin) They don't like you, Mister Darvin. I wonder why. Bones?
Mccoy said: (scanning him) Heartbeat is all wrong. His body temperature is. Jim, this man is a Klingon.
Baris said: A Klingon?
Kirk said: I wonder what Starfleet Command will say about that. What about the grain, Bones?
Mccoy said: Oh, yes. It was poisoned.
Baris said: Poisoned?
Mccoy said: Yes. It's been impregnated with a virus. The virus turns into an inert material in the bloodstream. The more the organism eats, the more inert matter is built up. So after two or three days, they reached a point where they couldn't take in enough nourishment to survive.
Kirk said: They starved to death. In a storage compartment full of grain, they starved to death.
Mccoy said: That is essentially it.
Kirk said: Mister Darvin, are you going to talk?
Darvin said: I have nothing to say. (Kirk thrusts the tribbles into his face) All right, I poisoned the grain! Take them away.
Kirk said: And the tribbles had nothing to do with it?
Darvin said: I don't know. I never saw one before in my life, and I hope I never see one of those fuzzy miserable things again.
Baris said: I'm certain that can be arranged, Darvin. Guards? If you'll excuse me, Captain.
Baris leaves with the security guards and Darvin.
Kirk said: Captain Koloth. About that apology.
Koloth said: Yes?
Kirk said: You have six hours to get your ship out of Federation territory.
The tribbles shriek, Koloth makes a hasty bow and practically runs out of the room with Korax.
Kirk said: You know, I think I could learn to like tribbles.
Scene: K7 Bar.
The face of an unhappy barman peers out from a pile of tribbles.
Jones said: Well, Captain, I suppose I'm free to go now.
Kirk said: No, you're not. There's something I want to show you. You know what the penalty is for transporting an animal proven harmful to human life?
Jones said: Captain, one little tribble isn't harmful. Captain, you wouldn't do a thing like that to me, now would you? Would you?
Spock said: The penalty is twenty years in a rehabilitation colony.
Jones said: Captain Kirk. Friend. Friend Kirk. Surely we can come to some sort of mutual understanding. After all, my tribbles did put you wise to the poisoned grain, and they did help you to find the Klingon agent. You saved a lot of lives that way.
Kirk said: There is one thing you can do.
Jones said: Yes?
Kirk said: Pick up every tribble on the space station. If you do that, I'll speak to Mister Lurry about returning your spaceship.
Jones said: It would take years.
Spock said: Seventeen point nine, to be exact.
Jones said: Seventeen point nine years.
Kirk said: Consider it Job security.
Jones said: Captain, you're a hard man. All right! All right!
Kirk said: You'll do it?
Jones said: I'll do it.
He starts stuffing tribbles into his many pockets.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Captain, Starfleet was able to divert that freighter.
Kirk said: Good. That means Sherman's Planet will get its quadrotriticale only a few weeks late. I don't see any tribbles around here.
Mccoy said: And you won't find a tribble on this entire ship.
Kirk said: Bones, how did you do it?
Mccoy said: I cannot take credit for another man's work. Scotty did it.
Kirk said: Scotty! Where are the tribbles?
Scott said: Oh, er, Captain, it was really Mister Spock's recommendation.
Kirk said: Of course. Spock.
Spock said: Based on computer analysis, of course, taking into account the possibilities of
Kirk said: Gentlemen, I don't want to interrupt this mutual admiration society, but I'd like to know where the tribbles are.
Mccoy said: Tell him, Spock.
Spock said: Well, it was Mister Scott who performed the actual engineering.
Kirk said: Mister Scott. Where are the tribbles?
Scott said: I used the transporter, Captain.
Kirk said: You used the transporter?
Scott said: Aye.
Kirk said: Where did you transport them? Scott, you didn't transport them into space, did you?
Scott said: Captain Kirk, that'd be inhuman.
Kirk said: Where are they?
Scott said: I gave them a good home, sir.
Kirk said: (shouting) Where?
Scott said: I gave them to the Klingons, sir.
Kirk said: (a whisper) You gave them to the Klingons?
Scott said: Aye, sir. Before they went into warp, I transported the whole kit and caboodle into their engine room, where they'll be no tribble at all.