Mudd's Women
Stardate: 1329.8
Original Airdate: 13 Oct, 1966
Captain's log, Stardate 1329.8. The U.S.S. Enterprise in pursuit of an unidentified vessel.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: There he is, sir. Centre screen. Still trying to run away from us, sir.
Kirk said: Don't lose him, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: No, sir.
Kirk said: Earth ship, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Difficult to say, Captain. We're getting no registration beam from it.
Scott said: If it is, he'll soon overload his engines.
Spock said: Sir, he's pushing his engines too hard.
Sulu said: Changing course again. He knows we're after him all right.
Kirk said: Stay with him, Mister Sulu. Communication?
Uhura said: I've tried all frequencies, sir. He refuses to answer. Unless he's not receiving us.
Kirk said: He's receiving us alright.
Spock said: Approaching an asteroid belt, Captain. Schiller rating three five.
Kirk said: Deflectors on, Mister Farrell.
Sulu said: He's seen the asteroids too, sir.
Kirk said: Stay with him. He'll try to lose us in them.
Sulu said: If one hits him.
Spock said: Sensor reading on the vessel. I make it out as a small class J cargo ship, and his engines are super-heating.
Kirk said: Try to warn him. If he loses power now
Farrell said: There go his engines, sir.
Sulu said: He's drifting into the asteroid belt, Captain.
Farrell said: He's had it, unless we put our deflector screen around him.
Scott said: Captain, if we try, we'll overload our own engines. He's too far away.
Kirk said: Cover him with our deflector screen, Mister Farrell. Scotty, Spock, stand by in the transporter room.
Scott said: Aye, sir. (they leave)
Farrell said: We're protecting him, sir. We won't be able to hold it long.
Sulu said: We're overloading, Captain. Engine temperatures climbing.
Crewman said: This is the Engine room. Temperatures are passing the danger line.
FARRELL Our deflector screen's weakening, sir. We can't protect them much longer. lights flicker
Sulu said: That was one of our lithium crystal circuits, sir.
Kirk said: Bridge to transporter room. If you don't start beaming that crew over soon
Scott said: They're not answering our signal. There's nothing to lock onto.
SULU lights go out again Another circuit, sir.
Uhura said: I'm getting a distress signal call from them, sir.
Kirk said: Scotty, we're getting a distress signal.
Scene: Transporter room.
Scott said: We're locked onto something, Captain.
Mudd said: Meaning no ingratitude, gentlemen, but just where is it I find meself?
Mccoy said: You're aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise.
Mudd said: It's really a darn beautiful ship, isn't it? Really a beautiful ship. Oh, the name, gentlemen, is Walsh, Captain Leo Walsh.
Spock said: How many more in your crew?
Mudd said: Just a few more.
Scott said: Your vessel's breaking up, man. If we don't get them over here right now
Mudd said: We couldn't be sure you was a friendly vessel, now could we. Ah, but the three will be in position about by now.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Another lithium circuit. Now supplementing with battery power, sir.
Kirk said: Scotty, how many of them did you get aboard?
Scott said: Only one, sir, but we've locked onto three more.
Scene: Transporter room.
Spock said: What's wrong?
Scott said: I don't know, sir. With those three lithium crystals gone
Spock said: It'll take longer on battery power.
Mccoy said: Never trusted this.
Scene: Bridge.
Farrell said: There she goes.
Sulu said: Asteroid hit him dead centre.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: Bridge to transporter room. Their vessel has been hit by an asteroid. It's gone. Did you get the crew off?
Scott said: Not yet, sir, but we've hooked onto something. (three women beam in, the men are transfixed)
Kirk said: Kirk to transporter room. Report.
Mudd said: It's all right, darlings. We're in good hands.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Bridge to transporter room.
Farrell said: We're clearing the asteroid belt now, Captain.
Kirk said: Deflector screen down, Mister Farrell. Save the power.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: Captain to transporter room. Are you reading me or not, Mister Scott? Bridge to transporter room. How many did we get off?
Scott said: Oh, er, four in all, sir.
Kirk said: If that captain can walk, I want him in my cabin immediately. Correction,
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: I want him there whether he can walk or not. Kirk out.
Scene: Transporter room.
Mudd said: That fellow sounded a mite upset, didn't he?
Mccoy said: Yes. Yes, they are.
Spock said: Curious. You're certain this was everyone aboard, Mister Walsh? No other crewmen?
Mudd said: Oh, no, that's everyone, all right, but so far as the ladies actually being the crew
Spock said: You can explain that to the Captain. (the group leave)
Mccoy said: Amen to that, Scotty.
Scene: Corridor.
Mudd said: Ah, sure, these starships are really something marvellous, but men will always be men no matter where they are. Eh, mister? You'll never take that out of them.
Scene: Turbolift.
Spock said: Deck twelve.
Mudd said: You're part Vulcanian, aren't you. Ah well then, a pretty face doesn't affect you at all, does it. That is, unless you want it to. You can save it, girls. This type can turn himself off from any emotion.
Eve said: I apologise for what he said, sir. He's used to buying and selling people.
Mudd said: I'll handle the conversation, darling.
Scene: Captain's quarters.
Kirk said: Come.
Spock said: The Commander of the transport to see you, Captain.
Kirk said: Good. Now, if you don't mind telling
Eve said: Hello.
Kirk said: And the ladies? Is this your crew, Captain?
Mudd said: Well, no, Captain. This is me cargo.
Captain's log, Stardate 1329.1. We've taken aboard from unregistered transport vessel its captain and, and three unusual females. These women have a mysterious magnetic effect on the male members of my crew, including myself. Explanation unknown at present.
Scene: Captain's quarters.
Mudd said: Well, how the devil am I supposed to know this is a starship, Captain? Here I am with a cargo of young lovelies. A strange ship comes up alongside. Well. naturally I did my best to evade you. And starship Captain or no, you exceeded your authority when you drove me and mine into a shower of asteroids.
Kirk said: Your name, please.
Mudd said: Walsh. Leo Walsh. You destroyed me ship, Captain.
Kirk said: Mister Walsh, I'm convening a ship's hearing on your actions. Mister Spock will supply you with any legal information you may need for your defence.
Mudd said: You're a hard-nosed one, Captain.
Kirk said: And you're a liar, Mister Walsh. I think we both understand each other. Security! Escort Mister Walsh to his quarters. Confine him there.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: You're on duty, Johnny-o. Back to reality.
Farrell said: You can feel their eyes when they look at you, like something grabbing hold of you. Did you notice that?
Sulu said: I noticed. How I noticed. Come on, Johnny.
Scott said: We've got trouble, Mister Spock.
Spock said: I'm well aware of that, Mister Scott.
Scott said: One lithium crystal left, and that with a hairline split at the base.
Spock said: Better rig a by-pass circuit.
Scott said: Can't. We blew the whole converter assembly.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Spock said: Needed on the bridge, Captain.
Scene: Briefing room.
Women said: Harry! Where were you?
Mudd said: Shh! Calm down now, darlings. Would you mind waiting outside?
Security said: Sorry, sir.
Mudd said: Well, now, answer every question they put to you. Don't lie. Well, you've no need to, have you, and don't submit to a med. That is, being so healthy, they've no need for a medical exam, have they.
Ruth said: What if they ask about
Mudd said: They won't. Have you no place to go lads?
Magda said: They'll notice we're different.
Mudd said: No, no, no, they won't. Just let Leo take all the hard questions. Now don't be panicking, loves. We'll get to
Eve said: Get where? We don't have a ship and we're headed the wrong way, Harry.
Nudd said: Leo. Leo Walsh is me name, darling. Don't forget that. So lovely. Lovely, aren't they? If they only think lovely thoughts, if they smile, they'll come out right some which way, won't they? My personal guarantee on that.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: The entire ship's power is feeding through one lithium crystal.
Kirk said: Well, switch to by-pass circuits.
Scott said: We burned them all out when we super-heated. That jackass Walsh not only wrecked his vessel, but in saving his skin
Kirk said: If it makes you feel better, Engineer, that's one jackass we're going to see skinned.
Scott said: But it's frustrating. Almost a million gross tons of vessel depending on a hunk of crystal the size of my fist.
Spock said: And that crystal won't hold up, not pulling all our power through it.
Kirk said: Well, Mister Spock?
Spock said: There's a lithium mining operation on Rigel 12. High-grade ore, I've heard.
Kirk said: Location and distance.
Spock said: Mister Farrell has the course. Less than two day's travel.
Kirk said: Make for Rigel 12, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Rigel 12, Mister Farrell. You have the course.
Captain's log, Stardate 1329.2. On board the U.S.S. Enterprise, a ship's hearing is being convened against the transport vessel's captain. I'm becoming concerned about the almost-hypnotic effect produced by the women.
Scene: Briefing room.
Kirk said: This hearing is convened. Stardate 1329.2, on board starship U.S.S. Enterprise. Formal hearings against transport captain Leo Walsh. Start computer.
Spock said: State your name for the record.
Mudd said: Leo Francis Walsh.
Computer said: Incorrect.
Spock said: Your correct name.
Mudd said: Gentlemen, surely you're not going to take the word of a soulless mechanical device over that of a real flesh and blood man.
Spock said: State your correct name for the record.
Mudd said: Harry Mudd.
Computer said: Incorrect.
Mudd said: Harcourt Fenton Mudd.
Spock said: Any past offenses, Mister Mudd?
Mudd said: Of course not. Gentlemen, I'm simply an honest businessman.
Computer said: Incorrect.
Mudd said: Blast that tin-plated pot.
Computer said: Full data coming on screen. RUTH: If it can read our minds, too.
Mudd said: It can't, darling. It can't. Just what's on the record. COMPUTER: Offense record. Smuggling. Sentence suspended. Transport of stolen goods. Purchase of space vessel with counterfeit currency. Sentences, psychiatric treatment, effectiveness disputed.
Kirk said: Mister Mudd, you're charged with galaxy travel without a flight plan, without an identification beam, and failure to answer a starship's signal, thus effecting a menace to navigation.
Mudd said: What? My tiny ship in this immense galaxy a menace to navigation?
Kirk said: You're also charged with operation of a vessel without a master's license.
Mudd said: Untrue! I have a master's ticket.
Computer said: Incorrect. Master's license revoked Stardate 1116.4.
Mudd said: All right. Well, very simply, Leo Walsh, who was to be my captain on this trip, passed away suddenly. Well, I had no choice but to take out me ship me own self. I assumed Leo's name out of courtesy to him. In memoriam, as it were. A fine, fine man, alas, gone to his reward.
Kirk said: Destination and purpose of journey?
Mudd said: Planet Ophiuchus 3. Wiving settlers.
Kirk said: Come again, Mister Mudd. You do what?
Mudd said: I recruit wives for settlers, a difficult but satisfying task.
Kirk said: Data on witnesses.
Computer said: No data.
Kirk said: Computer, go to sensor probe. Any unusual readings?
Computer said: No decipherable reading on females. However, unusual reading on male board members. Detecting high respiration patterns, perspiration rate up, heartbeat rapid, blood pressure higher than normal.
Kirk said: Er, that's sufficient. Strike that from the record.
Mudd said: You see, gentlemen, just as I told you. Three lovely ladies destined for frontier planets to be the companions of lonely men, to supply that warmth of a human touch that's so desperately needed. A wife, a home, a family. Gentlemen, I look upon this work as a sacred public trust. I've devoted me whole life to it.
Computer said: Incorrect.
Mudd said: Well, I'm about to start devoting my entire life to it.
Kirk said: Did these ladies come voluntarily?
Mudd said: Well, of course! Now, for example, Ruthie here comes from a pelagic planet, sea ranchers. Magda there from the helium experimental station.
Eve said: It's the same story for all of us, Captain. No men. Mine was a farm planet with automated machines for company and two brothers to cook for, mend their clothes, canal mud a foot thick on their boots every time they walked in.
Mudd said: Fine, Evie. Fine.
Eve said: It's not fine! We've got men willing to be our husbands waiting for us, and you're taking us in the opposite direction! Staring at us Iike we were Saturnius harem girls or something.
Mudd said: That's enough, Evie.
Kirk said: The only charges are against Mister Mudd. Illegal operation of a vessel. Do you have any defence to offer?
Mudd said: Only heaven's own truth, which I've just given you.
Kirk said: The hearing is closed. Mister Mudd to be handed over to the legal authorities at our earliest opportunity.
Eve said: And what about us? What happens to us? Help us, please. All of us.
Kirk said: Miss McHuron, if you don't mind
Scott said: Our last crystal, sir. It's gone.
Sulu said: Captain Kirk, engineering section reports our entire life-support system is now on batteries.
Kirk said: Mister Spock. Miss McHuron, would you mind. Mister Spock, will you contact the miners on Rigel 12? Notify them that we'll need the lithium crystals immediately upon arrival. (all officers leave)
Mudd said: Oh, you beautiful galaxy! Oh, that heavenly universe! Well, girls, lithium miners. Don't you understand? Lonely, isolated, overworked, rich lithium miners! Girls, do you still want husbands, hmm? Evie, you won't be satisfied with a mere ship's captain. I'll get you a man who can buy you a whole planet. Maggie, you're going to be a countess. Ruth, I'll make you a duchess. And I, I'll be running this starship. Captain James Kirk, the next orders you're taking will be given by Harcourt Fenton Mudd!
Captain's log-- Stardate 1330.1. Position, fourteen hours out of Rigel 12. We're on auxiliary impulse engines. Fuel low, barely sufficient to achieve orbit over the planet. Lithium replacements are now imperative. The effect of Mudd's women on my crew continues to grow, still totally unexplained. Harry Mudd is confined to his quarters under guard.
Scene: Sickbay.
Ruth said: May I come in?
Mccoy said: Why, yes, please do. By all means. Connors, are you finished?
Ruth said: I was wondering what this place looked like. It's fascinating.
Mccoy said: Would, Would you walk past my panel again, please?
Ruth said: Your what?
Mccoy said: My medical scanner.
Ruth said: Oh, why? You're not giving me an examination, are you?
Mccoy said: Oh no. I wouldn't trust my, my judgment, believe me. Just walk by, please. (scanner heart monitor activates) It's not supposed to do that.
Ruth said: I wondered, will you be examining the miners on Rigel 12?
Mccoy said: Yes, if they need it.
Ruth said: You haven't asked yet? Are they in good health and all?
Mccoy said: What? Oh, yes, they're in excellent health, all three of them.
Ruth said: Oh. Three.
Mccoy said: Are you wearing some unusual kind of perfume or something radioactive, my dear?
Ruth said: No. I'm just me.
Mccoy said: I wonder what makes it do that.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Eve said: Captain? I hope you don't mind.
Kirk said: As a matter of fact, Miss McHuron, I do.
Eve said: I was trying to take a walk, and I just, I just had to run in someplace. You see, all your men were looking at me, following me with their eyes.
Kirk said: Yes. I'll have to talk to them about that. They, er, they don't do that ordinarily, Miss McHuron, but somehow, in your case, and the ladies with you, its, er
Eve said: They're probably just lonely. I can understand loneliness.
Kirk said: Yes. Yes, er, now, Miss McHuron
Eve said: I, I suppose you understand it even more, having to run a huge ship like this with so much responsibility every minute and having to be so careful with all your men looking up to you.
Kirk said: Well, it probably appears more difficult than it is.
Eve said: Hmm! I read once that a commander has to act like a paragon of virtue. I never met a paragon.
Kirk said: Neither have I.
Eve said: Well, of course not. No one is. But some people try to pretend. Do you, Captain?
Kirk said: Miss McHuron, I don't
Eve said: Oh, no! Oh, I just can't do it. I don't care what Harry Mudd says. I do like you, but I just can't go through with it. I hate this whole thing!
Scene: Mudds's quarters.
Mudd said: Just three? You're sure?
Ruth said: Yes. The miners are healthy and fairly young.
Mudd said: Later, dear, later. Magda, did you get to your communications man?
Magda said: The head miner is named Ben Childress. The others are Gossett and Benton.
Mudd said: And they've been there?
Ruth said: Almost three years now, alone!
Mudd said: Perfect. Perfect. Three of them and three lovely ladies has Harry Mudd. And lithium crystals, my dear, are worth three hundred times their weight in diamonds, thousands of times their weight in gold.
Ruth said: But they'll be down there, and we'll be up here, circling a hundred miles above them.
Magda said: And there's a guard outside your door, Harry. You can't get out of your cabin.
Mudd said: No, my dears. After one more job for you, it won't be Harry Mudd that's trapped. It will be a gentleman named James T
Eve said: I don't like you, and I'm not very happy with myself, either.
Mudd said: Well, I'm not really surprised. I've seen you noticing the Captain.
Eve said: We're supposed to notice them! Oh, oh Harry, I don't feel very good. I think it must be near the time.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: I asked for a preorbital course, Mister Farrell.
Farrell said: Preorbital course locked in, sir.
Kirk said: That's the last time I'm giving an order twice, gentlemen. We're down to battery power, and we're low on that.
Scott said: It'll get us to Rigel 12, sir, but it'll be a shaky orbit.
Kirk said: Just hang us in long enough to get six crystals, Scotty. That's all we need.
Scott said: I'll get you there.
Kirk said: Ridiculous. What are we running here. Did you examine them? Did you examine Eve?
Mccoy said: She refused.
Kirk said: Well, come on, you're the doctor. What is it? Is it that we're tired, and they're beautiful? They are incredibly beautiful.
Mccoy said: Are they, Jim? Are they actually more lovely, pound for pound, measurement for measurement, than any other women you've known? Or is it that they just, well, act beautiful. No. Strike that, strike that.
Kirk said: What are they?
Mccoy said: You mean are they alien illusions? That sort of thing?
Kirk said: I asked you first.
Mccoy said: No, an alien smart enough to pull this could also keep my medical scanner from going beep!
Kirk said: I don't follow you.
Mccoy said: I don't either.
Scene: Mudd's quarters.
Magda said: Top space frequency of three nine. (hands over communicator)
Mudd said: Rigel 12. Rigel 12.
Childress said: This is Rigel 12. Come in, Enterprise.
Mudd said: Well, this isn't exactly the Enterprise. My name is Harry Mudd. To whom have I the pleasure of speaking, sir?
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Power curve still dropping, Captain.
Farrell said: We'll make orbit, sir. A temporary one.
Kirk said: Lay in. Computer?
Spock said: We can sustain this orbit for three days, seven hours.
Kirk said: More than enough time. Communications, have a representative of the Rigel 12 miners meet us here to discuss our needs. Beam him up first pass over their camp.
Uhura said: Yes, sir.
Scene: Mudd's quarters.
Ruth said: Look what's happening. (hair lank, skin slightly lined) Look at my face.
Magda said: Give us the pills.
Ruth said: What if someone sees us like this?
Eve said: You'll never find them, Harry, and if you do find them you know what they are. A cheat. If you care for someone, really care
Mudd said: (ransacking drawers frantically) For whom, Evie? For Kirk? You'll find out that Ship's captains are already married, girl, to their vessels. You'd find out the first time you came between him and the ship. You'll see.
Ruth said: I'm going back to what I was. Ugly.
Magda said: I can't stand myself like this.
Ruth said: Why did you hide them, Harry? Don't you trust us?
Mudd said: I didn't hide them, girl. I put them in a safe place in case I was searched.
Madga said: Find the pill, Harry!
Mudd said: Mattress! Yes, here! (Ruth and Magda devour them eagerly) Go on, Eve. Take it. It's not a cheat. It's a miracle for some man who can appreciate it and who needs it.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Spock said: Even burned and cracked, they're beautiful. Destroying them was a shame.;
Kirk said: Not at all, Mister Spock. The choice was burning this lithium crystal or the destruction of another man's ship. Come. SECURITY: Sir. Mining Chief Childress and Mister Gossett.
Kirk said: Good. Show them in. I'm James Kirk, captain of the Enterprise. This is my science officer Mister Spock.
Childress said: Let's get right to business. You want lithium crystals and we've got them.
Kirk said: Fine. I'm authorised to pay an equitable price.
Childress said: We're not sure they're for sale, Captain. We might prefer a swap.
Kirk said: What did you have in mind?
Childress said: Mudd's women.
Gossett said: If we like them. We'd like to have a look at them first of course.
Childress said: Right. Trot them out, Captain. Oh, and Harry Mudd. Either way, I've agreed to have him released. Charges dropped.
Kirk said: (laughs) Is there anything else?
Childress said: You've got no choice, Kirk. You beam a landing party down, and you won't find one blessed crystal.
Kirk said: No deal. You're a long way out in space, gentlemen. You'll need medical help, cargo runs, starship protection. You want to consider those facts too?
Mudd said: Come along, ladies, come along. You must be Ben Childress. Come on now, girls, come on.
Ruth said: And you must be Herm Gossett.
Gossett said: Yes, I reckon I am.
Childress said: One thing I'll say for you, Mudd, you're not a liar. Ladies, you are welcome.
Kirk said: It's still no deal.
Spock said: Conserving batteries, sir. Half power.
Mudd said: I'm told they have only three days of orbit left before they start spiraling in. I do hate to see you suffering such a situation, Captain, but truth is truth, and the sad fact is you will deal. Sooner or later, you'll have to.
Captain's log. Transporting down to surface of planet Rigel 12 to acquire replacement lithium crystals. Expect further difficulty from miners.
Scene: Miner's camp.
Kirk said: All right, Childress, you've won. Now I'll take the lithium crystals.
Childress said: When I have the time, Kirk.
Kirk said: Childress.
Childress said: We're busy, Mister Kirk.
Spock said: We don't have the time to spare, Captain.
Kirk said: You got a better idea?
Childress said: (to Eve) Blows like that all the time. You can get lost a dozen feet from your doorstep. The wind comes up sudden. Magnetic storm. That means the wind will really rip soon.
Magda said: Dance with me.
Childress said: Would you like to dance?
Eve said: No, I (coughs) No. I'm sorry, I guess it must be the dust.
Childress said: That's the way it is on Rigel all the time. (cuts in on Ruth instead)
Gossett said: Hey.
Benton said: Go away.
Gossett said: I'm cutting in.
Benton said: Not on me. (fight starts);
Childress said: What's the matter with you?
Eve said: Why don't you run a raffle and the loser gets me? (leaves)
Childress said: You can't go out there. You'll get killed.
Kirk said: Just have those crystals here when I get back.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: Eve! Eve!
Captain's log. Have transported aboard the Enterprise to implement search with infrared scanners and sensing system. Magnetic storms on the planet's surface are cutting down speed and efficiency of our equipment. Search now in progress for three hours, eighteen minutes.
Scene: Bridge.
Farrell said: Traverse parallel three and four.
Sulu said: Checking, but not getting much.
Spock said: The storm is ionising the atmosphere, Captain. Getting difficult to probe through it.
Scott said: Captain, this is draining our batteries further. If we only had those crystals.
Kirk said: But we don't! I didn't get any. I should have found a way. Satisfied, Mister Scott?
Uhura said: Losing communications with the miners, sir. Magnetic storm seems worse.
Kirk said: Has Childress reported in yet?
Uhura said: No, sir. He and the girl are still missing.
Kirk said: Sorry, Scotty. How much power do we have left?
Scott said: About five hours, sir.
Captain's log. Have expended all but forty three minutes of power. Ship's condition, critical. Search now in progress seven hours, thirty one minutes. Magnetic storms are easing.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Infrared reading. Check traverse three, grid zero four zero.
Farrell said: About eleven miles, bearing one two one from the mining company.
Sulu said: That's Ben Childress' quarters.
Spock said: There's a heat unit operating in there. It could be a cookstove.
Kirk said: Have Mudd meet me in the transporter room.
Spock said: Mudd?
Kirk said: The name of this game.
Scene: Childress' quarters.
Childress said: I had things where I wanted them.
Eve said: I ate some of your food, so I paid with some chores.
Childress said: And I do my own cooking. I've not laid a hand on you. Remember that.
Eve said: Oh, the sound of male ego. You travel halfway across the galaxy, and it's still the same song. There. You going to eat or talk?
Childress said: I guess I'm supposed to sit, taste, and roll my eyes. Ooh, female cooking again. I've tasted better, by my own hand.
Eve said: Well you're tasting some of it now. I couldn't scrape three layers of your leavings out of that pan.
Childress said: You find me a well, some decent water, then talk.
Eve said: Well, why don't you hang your pan out in the wind and let the sand blast it clean, or hadn't you thought about that?
Childress said: (after hanging out the pots) It might work. That solitaire?
Eve said: Double jack.
Childress said: The red eight ought to go on the black nine.
Eve said: Not in double jack.
Childress said: You're not only plain as an old bucket, you're not even good company. What the devil happened to your looks, anyway?
Eve said: I got tired of you. I slumped.
Childress said: You heard what I said. You're homely! I've got enough in crystals already to buy queens by the gross! (Kirk and Mudd enter) I didn't touch her.
Mudd said: Thank heaven you found her.
Childress said: She's been bubbling with gratitude ever since.
Kirk said: Sit down. Tell him. Tell him, Harry.
Mudd said: Ah. Yes, well.
Kirk said: The Venus drugs, Harry.
Childress said: Venus drug? I've heard of it but, it's not just one of those stories?
Kirk said: Oh, it exists, illegally.
Mudd said: Well, actually, you see, it's a relatively harmless drug.
Eve said: Harmless!
Mudd said: Well, what it does is give you more of whatever you have. Well, with men, it makes them more muscular. Women, rounder. Men, more aggressive. Women, more feminine, and
Kirk said: He gave it to the women before you met them.
Childress said: Does that mean the others? They really look like she does?
Mudd said: Mister Childress, I
Childress said: Is that what it means?
Eve said: Yes, that's what it means!
Childress said: What happened to my partners?
Kirk said: They've left for their quarters during the storm, Childress. They're married. Subspace radio marriage. It was a fraud. They can get out of it.
Mudd said: If they want to.
Childress said: Why?
Mudd said: You can't condemn the women.
Childress said: I can! A man goes out and fights, almost dies. We all almost die. We should have, but we didn't. And now that we've got the good life in our hands, you bring us women for wives that
Eve said: You don't want wives, you want this. This is what you want, Mister Childress. I hope you remember it and dream about it, because you can't have it. It's not real! (takes the pills) Is this the kind of wife you want, Ben? Not someone to help you, not a wife to cook and sew and cry and need, but this kind. Selfish, vain, useless. Is this what you really want? All right, then. Here it is.
Kirk said: Quite a woman, eh, Childress?
Childress said: A fake, pumped up by a drug.
Kirk said: By herself. She took no drug.
Eve said: I swallowed it.
Kirk said: Coloured gelatin.
Mudd said: Yes, they took away my drug and substituted that.
Eve said: But that can't be.
Kirk said: There's only one kind of woman.
Mudd said: Or man, for that matter.
Kirk said: You either believe in yourself, or you don't. All right Childress, I've gone as far with you as I intend to. I want those lithium crystals and I want them now. Enterprise, this is Kirk.
Spock said: Spock here, Captain.
Kirk said: Stand by. Do I beam down a search party?
Childress said: No, the crystals are here, and you're welcome to them.
Kirk said: Stand by, Mister Spock. We're coming aboard with the lithium crystals.
Spock said: How many coming, Captain?
Childress said: Eve will stay, today at least. We, er, we want to talk.
Kirk said: Eve?
Eve said: You've got someone up there called the Enterprise.
Kirk said: Two of us, Mister Spock. Come on, Mister Mudd.
Mudd said: Don't you think you could possibly, by accident, arrange to leave me behind here? On this planet that would be punishment enough.
Kirk said: I can't do that, Harry, but I will appear as a character witness at your trial. If you think that'll help.
Mudd said: They'll throw away the key.
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: That must have been quite a talk you made down there. Ever try considering the patent medicine business?
Kirk said: Why should I work your side of the street?
Spock said: I'm happy the affair is over. A most annoying emotional episode.
Mccoy said: Smack right in the old heart. Oh, I'm sorry. In your case, it would be about here.
Spock said: The fact that my internal arrangement differs from yours, Doctor, pleases me no end.
Farrell said: Course plotted and all systems in operation.
Sulu said: Engines engaged. Helm answering.
Farrell said: Out of orbit, sir.
Kirk said: Ahead full.
Sulu said: Ahead full, sir.