A Piece Of The Action
Stardate: 4598.0
Original Airdate: 12 Jan, 1968
Scene: Bridge.
Chekov said: Approaching Sigma Iotia Two, Captain.
Kirk said: Standard orbit, Mister Chekov.
Uhura said: Captain, I have received vocal contact from an official station. They relayed us to a man named Oxmyx. His title is Boss.
Kirk said: Boss? All right, Lieutenant, put him on. Oxmyx. This is Captain James T. Kirk of the starship Enterprise, representing the Federation of Planets.
Oxmyx said: Hello, Captain. You're from the same outfit as the Horizon?
Kirk said: Yes. Unfortunately, the Horizon was lost with all hands shortly after leaving your planet. We only received her radio report last month.
Oxmyx said: Last month? What are you talking about? The Horizon left here a hundred years ago.
Kirk said: Difficult to explain. We received a report a hundred years late because it was sent by conventional radio. Your system is on the outer reaches of the galaxy. They didn't have subspace communication in those days.
Oxmyx said: Toward the edge of what?
Kirk said: I'll explain it in more detail when I see him. The ship won't land, but we'll transport several people down. Well, that's a little difficult for you to understand, too. I'll explain it in more detail when I see you. Where will be convenient?
Oxmyx said: Well, there's an intersection just at the end of the block, near a yellow fire plug. Think you can find it?
Kirk goes over to the engineering station.
Kirk said: Scotty, do you have the co-ordinates?
Scott said: Located, sir.
KIRK; Good. Mister Oxmyx, we have your intersection located. Will five minutes be all right?
Oxmyx said: Fine. Fine. I'll have a reception committee there to meet you.
Kirk said: Good. I'll be looking forward to it. Kirk out. Scotty, you have the conn.
McCoy and Spock enter from the turbolift.
Kirk said: Spock, McCoy, we're beaming down. Standard equipment.
Scene: Turbolift.
Kirk said: The Horizon's contact came before the Non-Interference Directive went into effect.
Mccoy said: They must have interfered with the normal evolution of the planet.
Spock said: It will be interesting to see the results of the contamination.
Kirk said: We don't know there is contamination. The evidence is only circumstantial.
Mccoy said: What was the state of the Iotian culture before the Horizon came?
Kirk said: The beginnings of industrialisation.
Scene: Transporter room.
Spock said: Horizon reports indicate the Iotians are extremely intelligent and somewhat imitative.
Mccoy said: So we're going down to recontaminate them.
Spock said: The damage has been done, Doctor. We are here to repair it.
Kirk said: Let's not argue about it. Let's go study it. Energise.
Scene: Street.
There's a yellow fire hydrant, litter, a girl in a 1930's dress, motor cars, shops, and men standing around carrying machine guns. Welcome to Chicago.
Spock said: Fascinating.
Mccoy said: This is like coming home.
Kirk said: Home was never like this. I've seen pictures of the old days that look like this.
Spock said: Interesting, Captain. Passers-by are carrying, I believe, firearms.
They are approached by two men in neat suits with machine guns.
Kalo said: (in a brown suit) Okay, you three, let's see you petrify.
Spock said: Sir, would you mind explaining that statement, please?
Kalo said: I want to see you turn to stone. Put your hands over your head, or you ain't going to have no head to put your hands over.
They are deprived of their phasers and communicators.
Kalo said: What's this?
Kirk said: That's a weapon. Be careful with that.
Kalo said: A heater, huh? Hey, the boss will love that. (puts it in his pocket)
Kirk said: Look, we were asked to come down here by Mister Oxmyx. He said
Kalo said: I know what he said, bud. He said some of the boys would meet you. Okay, we're meeting you.
Mccoy said: Well, those firearms are not necessary.
Kalo said: You trying to make trouble?
Mccoy said: Who, me?
Kalo said: Don't give me those baby blue eyes.
Mccoy said: What?
Kalo said: I don't go for that innocent routine.
Spock said: Sir, does everyone here carry firearms?
Kalo said: I never heard such stupid questions in my life.
Mccoy said: Well, since this Oxmyx asked us down here, don't you think we should see him?
Kalo said: All right. Get moving. Down the street.
Just then a car comes hurtling around the corner. Everyone dives for cover, and gunfire rings out. The silent man in the blue suit gets shot. Kalo returns fire as the car speeds away.
Kalo said: Krako's getting more gall all the time .
Kirk said: Is this how you greet all your guests?
Kalo said: It happens, pal.
Mccoy said: That man's dead back there.
Kalo said: Yeah? We ain't playing for peanuts. What's the matter, you guys never saw a hit before?
Spock said: Sir, there are several questions I would like to ask.
Kalo said: Ask the boss. I don't know nothing. Get moving.
They leave the crowd to deal with the deceased.
Mccoy said: This is the contamination you're looking for, Jim.
Kirk said: Yes, but the Horizon crew wasn't composed of cold-blooded killers. They didn't report this culture in this state, either. What happened?
Woman said: Hey, Kalo. Hey, when's the boss going to do something about the crummy street lights around here, eh? A girl ain't safe.
Woman 2 said: And how about the laundry pickup? We ain't had a truck by in three weeks.
Kalo said: Write him a letter.
Woman 2 said: I did. He sent it back with postage due.
Woman said: Listen, we pay our percentages. We're entitled to a little service for our money.
Kalo said: Get lost, will ya? Some people got nothing to do but complain.
Kirk said: Is this the way your citizens do business, their right of petition?
Kalo said: They pay their percentages and the boss takes care of them.
Scene: Oxmyx's office.
It's a lovely high-ceilinged room with wood paneling, tiled floor with a carpet and substantial furniture. A buzzer sounds.
Oxmyx said: (a silver haired man in a suit) Hit that button. (the girl sitting on his desk obeys) Yeah?
Kalo said: Got them, Boss. No sweat.
Oxmyx said: All right. Bring them in. (he goes to the pool table and picks up a cue) Which one of you is the captain?
Kirk said: Depends.
Oxmyx said: Make yourself a drink, Captain. It's good stuff. I distill it myself.
Kirk said: No, thank you. You're Mister Oxmyx.
Oxmyx said: That's me, pal.
Kirk said: This is my first officer, Mister Spock, Doctor McCoy.
Oxmyx said: Doctor, huh? Put that chopper down, Kalo. These guys are our guests. Pick up a cue, Captain. Go ahead. You can't be too careful around here these days.
Mccoy said: Yes. Judging from what we've seen so far, I agree.
Kirk said: They call you The Boss, Mister Oxmyx. The boss of what?
Oxmyx said: The boss of my territory. I got the biggest in the world. You know, there's one thing wrong with having the biggest. There's always some punk trying to cut you out. That's why you can't be too careful.
Kirk said: You're the government here?
Oxmyx said: What government? Look, I told you. I got the territory and I run it. That's all.
Kirk said: But there are other bosses, other territories?
Oxmyx said: Yeah, sure. Maybe a dozen or so, not counting the small fry, but then they get burned anyway soon as I get around to it.
Spock said: Does that include, if I may ask, a gentleman called Krako?
Oxmyx said: How do you know about Krako?
Kalo said: He hit us, Boss.
Oxmyx said: Okay. You hit him back, you hear? Hard.
Kalo said: I'll take care of it.
Spock has discovered a book on a lectern.
Spock said: Captain? Gangsters. Chicago. Mobs. Published in 1992. Where'd you get this?
Oxmyx said: Hey, wait a minute. That's the Book.
Kirk said: I know it's a book.
Oxmyx said: The Book. They left it, the other ship. The Horizon.
Spock said: This is the contamination, Captain. Astonishing. An entire culture based on this.
Mccoy said: You said they were imitative, and the book
Oxmyx said: I don't want any more cracks about the Book.
Kirk said: Did they leave any other books?
Oxmyx said: Sure. Some text books on how to make radio sets and stuff like that, but, look, I brought you here so you could help me, not for you to ask me questions. After that, I'll answer anything you want to know.
Kirk said: What is it you want?
Oxmyx said: Well, I was thinking. You Feds must have made a lot of improvements since that other ship came here. You probably got all kinds of fancy heaters up there. So here's the deal. You give me all the heaters I need. Enough tools so I can knock off those punks all at once. Then I'll take over, and all you'll have to do is deal with me.
Kirk said: Now let me get this straight. You want us to supply you with arms and assistance so you can carry out an aggression against your neighbours?
Oxmyx said: What aggression? I got to make hits. I want you to help me hit them. That's all.
Spock said: Fascinating, but quite impossible.
Kirk said: Mister Oxmyx, my orders are quite explicit. Under no circum
Oxmyx said: I ain't interested in your orders. From now on, you're gonna take orders from me. I'm gonna give you just eight hours to give me the things I want. If I don't have those tools by then, I'm gonna call up your ship and have them pick you up in a box. Is that understood, pal?
Kalo and another henchman put their guns to Kirk's head.
Kalo said: Hey, Boss, this here's a heater, and I don't know what this is. (tosses them to his leader)
Oxmyx said: Let's see how this thing works.
Kirk said: Don't do that. You could knock out the side of the building.
Oxmyx said: That good, huh? All you have to do is give me about a hundred of these fancy heaters and we'll have no more trouble.
Kirk said: Out of the question.
Oxmyx said: Captain Kirk, I usually get what I want. What's this thing? (silence) All right. Burn him.
Kirk said: Hold it. It's a communication device.
Oxmyx said: How does it work?
Kirk said: It's locked onto my ship's systems.
Oxmyx said: Kalo, take them to the warehouse and put them in a bag. Keep a sharp eye on them, you hear.
Kalo said: In the bag, Boss. Come on.
The landing party and the gunmen leave
Oxmyx said: (into communicator) Hey, you. In the ship up there.
Scene: Bridge.
Oxmyx said: Hey, you in the ship.
Scott said: Scott here. Who's this?
Scene: Oxmyx's office.
Oxmyx said: This is Bela Oxmyx. I got your captain and his friends down here. You want to see them alive
Scene: Bridge.
Oxmyx said: Again you'll send me down a hundred of these fancy heaters you've got, and some troops to show me how to use them.
Scott said: Am I to understand that you're holding the captain and his party?
Scene: Oxmyx's office.
Oxmyx said: You heard right, pal. I'm going to give you just eight hours to get me the goods I want, or I put the hit on your friends.
Scene: Bridge.
Oxmyx said: You understand?
Scott said: I don't know. (Oxmyx ends the transmission, laughing) Lieutenant Hadley, check the language banks and find out what a heater is.
Scene: Warehouse.
The guards are sitting at a makeshift table playing cards whilst the landing party sit on various barrels and crates.
Mccoy said: One book on the gangs of Chicago did all this. It's amazing.
Spock said: They evidently seized upon that one book as the blueprint for an entire society.
Mccoy said: It's the Bible.
Kirk said: In old Chicago, conventional government almost broke down. The gangs nearly took over.
Mccoy said: Yeah, well, Oxmyx is the worst gangster of all.
Spock said: We may quarrel with Mister Oxmyx' methods, but his goal is essentially the correct one. This society must become united or it will degenerate into total anarchy.
Kirk said: If this society broke down as the result of the Horizon's influence, then the Federation's responsible, and we've got to do something to straighten this mess out. Spock, if you could get to the sociological computer, do you think you could find a solution?
Spock said: Unfortunately, I do not have access to my computers, nor are these gentlemen likely to permit it.
Kirk said: Well, I've got an idea about that. (goes over to the card table and gets guns pointed at him) Gentlemen. Gentlemen. This, card game is a kid's game.
Kalo said: You think so, huh?
Kirk said: Oh, yes, yes. I wouldn't waste my time.
Kalo said: Who's asking you?
Kirk said: On Beta Antares Four, they play a real game. It's a man's game, but of course it's probably a little beyond you. It requires intelligence.
Kalo said: Listen, Kirk, I can play anything you can figure out. Take the cards, big man. Show us how it's played.
Spock said: I'm familiar with the culture on Beta Antares. There aren't games
Kirk said: Spock. Spock. (sits) Of course, the cards on Beta Antares Four are different, but not too different. The name of the game is called fizzbin.
Kalo said: Fizzbin?
Kirk said: Fizzbin. It's not too difficult. (begins dealing) Each player gets six cards, except for the player on the dealer's right, who gets seven.
Kalo said: On the right.
Kirk said: Yes. The second card is turned up, except on Tuesdays.
Kalo said: On Tuesday.
Kirk said: Oh, look what you got, two jacks. You got a half fizzbin already.
Kalo said: I need another jack.
Kirk said: No, no. If you got another jack, why, you'd have a sralk.
Kalo said: A sralk?
Kirk said: Yes. You'd be disqualified. You need a king and a deuce, except at night of course, when you'd need a queen and a four.
Kalo said: Except at night.
Kirk said: Right. Oh, look at that. You've got another jack. How lucky you are! How wonderful for you. If you didn't get another jack, if you'd gotten a king, why then you'd get another card, except when it's dark, you'd give it back.
Kalo said: If it were dark on Tuesday.
Kirk said: Yes, but what you're after is a royal fizzbin, but the odds in getting a royal fizzbin are astron. Spock, what are the odds in getting a royal fizzbin?
Spock said: I have never computed them, Captain.
Kirk said: Well, they're astronomical, believe me. Now, for the last card. We'll call it a kronk. You got that?
Kalo said: What?
Kirk 'accidentally' drops the card on the floor
Kalo said: I'll get it.
As he bends down, Spock nock-pinches him while McCoy and Kirk punch out the other two men. McCoy is quicker than Kirk.
Kirk said: Spock, find the radio station. Uhura's monitoring the broadcasts. Cut in and have yourselves beamed up to the ship.
Spock said: Surely, you're coming, Captain.
Kirk said: I will, but I'm bringing Bela Oxmyx with me.
Mccoy said: Jim, you can't
Kirk said: Bones, this mess is our responsibility. You have your orders. Let's go.
Scene: Alleyway.
Kirk is running along, carrying a machine gun, when a voice rings out. A man in a light grey suit and straw boater accosts him.
Zabo said: Hold it! Okay, pally, we're going for a ride.
Kirk said: If you don't mind, I'd rather walk.
Zabo said: Listen, pally, this could either be a taxi or a hearse. You know what I mean?
Kirk said: I'm beginning to get the idea.
They climb into the back of a very nice car.
Scene: Radio station.
A woman is about to put the needle onto a record when Spock neck-pinches her.
Mccoy said: You do that very well. Now, how are you with primitive radio equipment?
Spock said: Very simple. Amplitude modulation transmission. I simply adjust the frequency, throw this switch, and the Enterprise should answer.
Voice said: That was the Jailbreakers with their latest recording on Request Time, brought to you by Bang-Bang, the makers of the sweetest little automatic in the world
Spock said: Fascinating.
Mccoy said: And very simple.
Spock said: Let me see. (throws a few more switches and picks up the microphone.) Enterprise, this is Mister Spock.
Uhura said: Lieutenant Uhura here, Mister Spock.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Mister Spock, what are you doing on this frequency?
Scene: Radio station.
Spock said: A very long and complicated story, Lieutenant. Notify the transporter room, Two to beam up, these co-ordinates.
Scene: Krako's office.
The brass plaque by the front door of the building proclaims 'JoJo Krako, Boss, Southside Territory'. The straw boaters are the badge of his organisation. JoJo is practising throwing darts over his shoulder at a poster of Oxmyx. Kirk is brought in. There's a copy of the Book on a lectern here too.
Krako said: So you're the Fed, huh? Well, well, well, well, well.
Kirk said: And you?
Krako said: Krako. JoJo Krako. I'm the head of the whole Southside Territory. Hey, glad to see you.
Kirk said: Would you mind telling me how you even know who I am?
Krako said: Sit down, Kirk. I've got all of Bela's communications bugged. He can't make a date with a broad unless I know about it. Well, I guess you want to know why I brought you here.
Kirk said: You want to make a deal.
Krako said: Hey, I like that. That is sharp. That's sharp, eh, Zabo?
Zabo said: Sharp, Boss.
Krako said: That's right, a deal. I want you to help me.
He snaps his fingers, and the girl walks over to Kirk and starts massaging his shoulders.
Kirk said: Let me guess. You want, you'll want heaters, and then you'll want troops to teach them how to use them. And then you'll attack the other bosses and take over the whole planet. Then we'll sit down and talk, right?
Krako said: Wrong! I know Bela. He didn't offer you beans. Now, me, I'm a reasonable man. You give me what I want and I'll cut you in for, say, a third. Skimmed right off the top. Well, what do you think?
Kirk said: I got a better idea. This planet has to be united. You know that. Bela knows that. Let's sit down. You, me, Bela. Discuss this whole matter, contact the other bosses, and talk about it like reasonable men.
Krako said: You watch it, Kirk. The Book tells us how to handle things. (snaps his fingers to recall the girl) You make hits. Somebody argues, you lean on 'em. What do you think, we're stupid or something?
Kirk said: No, I don't think you're stupid. I just think your behaviour is arrested.
Krako said: I haven't been arrested in my whole life! Listen, pally, I know how to get what I want. You want to live, don't you, Kirk? You bet you do. But after I get through with you, you're liable to be sorry unless you come across. Hold him here. Tell Cirl the Knife to sharpen up his blade. I just might have a job for him. Unless you come across with the heaters.
Kirk said: I'm sorry, Krako. No deal.
Krako said: That's too bad. Put him on ice!
Scene: Small office.
They put him in a proper working office, with letter opener, desk with blotting paper, a cot-bed and a nice old radio with nice old valves and stuff inside. Kirk starts taking it apart.
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: Well?
Spock said: Futile, Doctor. No specifics. There is no record of such a culture based on a moral inversion.
Mccoy said: You mean you're giving up?
Spock said: No, Doctor. I'm merely saying the computers can offer us no logical, rational, factual way out of our current dilemma.
Uhura said: Mister Spock, Mister Oxmyx is making contact from the surface.
Spock said: On audio, Lieutenant. Mister Oxmyx, this is Mister Spock.
Oxmyx said: Huh? Hey, how'd you get back up there?
Spock said: Irrelevant, since we are here.
Scene: Oxmyx's office.
Oxmyx said: Oh, yeah. I tell you, you'd better come on back down.
Scene: Bridge.
Oxmyx said: Krako's put the bag on your captain.
Spock said: Why would he put a bag on our captain?
Scene: Oxmyx's office.
Oxmyx said: Kidnapped him, you dope.
Scene: Bridge.
Oxmyx said: He'll scrag him, too.
Spock said: If I understand you correctly, that would seem to be a problem.
Scene: Oxmyx's office.
Oxmyx said: Look, you guys got something I want. I can help you get your captain back.
Scene: Bridge.
Oxmyx said: Then we can talk about the deal I want.
Spock said: I'm afraid I find it difficult to trust you, Mister Oxmyx.
Scene: Oxmyx's office.
Oxmyx said: What's to trust? Business is business. We'll call a truce. You come on down.
Scene: Bridge.
Oxmyx said: My boys'll spring Kirk, and then we'll talk about giving me a hand.
Spock said: You'll show no further hostility?
Scene: Oxmyx's office.
Oxmyx said: I'm a businessman, pally. What do ya say?
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Since we must have our captain back, I accept.
Scene: Oxmyx's office.
Spock said: We shall arrive in your office within ten minutes. Spock out.
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: You mean you're going to trust him?
Spock said: If we are to save the captain without blatant, forceful interference on this planet, Doctor, we must have the assistance of someone indigenous. We are therefore forced to trust Mister Oxmyx.
Scene: Small office.
Kirk has used copper wire to create a trip-wire, and starts throwing the waste paper bin around to make a noise.
Kirk said: Help me! Help! Help me!
A henchman dashes in and goes flying over the wire. Kirk kicks him unconscious, then uses a blanket to disorient Zabo when he comes in before knocking him out too, taking a weapon and making his escape.
Scene: Transporter room.
Spock said: Mister Scott, though we hope to avoid interference, I suggest you set one of our phaser banks on a strong stun position.
Scott said: Aye, sir.
Mccoy said: Now you're beginning to make sense.
Spock said: I trust we shall not have to use them, but it is best to be prepared. Energise.
Scene: Oxmyx's office.
Oxmyx said: You know what to do.
Kalo said: Don't worry, Boss. They can't do nothing till they're through sparkling.
Oxmyx said: Just the same, you be careful. They'll have heaters on them. (to his girl) Now you watch this.
Spock and McCoy arrive, and are promptly taken prisoner.
Ship's log. Mister Spock reporting. Incredible as it seems, Doctor McCoy and I are once again prisoners of the chief criminal boss of a society patterned after old Earth gangsters.
Oxmyx said: (taking the phasers) Pick up many more of these, I won't need your co-operation.
Spock said: Mister Oxmyx, I understood we had an arrangement, a truce.
Oxmyx said: I was hoping you'd think that, dummy.
Mccoy said: We're trying to help you, Oxmyx.
Oxmyx said: Nobody helps nobody but himself.
Spock said: Sir, you are employing a double negative.
Oxmyx said: Huh?
Spock said: I fail to see why you do not understand us. You yourself have stated the need for unity of authority on this planet. We agree.
Oxmyx said: Yeah, but I got to be the unity.
Spock said: Co-operation, sir, would inevitably result
Oxmyx said: The most co-operative man in this world is a dead man. And if you don't keep your mouth shut, you're going to be co-operatin'.
The door opens and Kirk enters with his machine gun.
Kirk said: Drop the guns. Drop 'em. (McCoy and Spock take back their phasers) Move down there.
Oxmyx said: Hey, Captain, you got away from Krako. You know, that ain't easy.
Kirk said: I thought you were supposed to report to the ship, Mister Spock.
Spock said: We did, Captain. The situation required our return.
Kirk said: It may be just as well. Did you find out anything from the computer?
Spock said: Nothing useful. Logic and practical information do not seem to apply here.
Mccoy said: You admit that?
Spock said: To deny the facts would be illogical, Doctor.
Kirk said: Then you don't mind if I play a hunch?
Spock said: I'm not sanguine about hunches, Captain, but I have no practical alternative.
Mccoy said: What are we going to do now, Jim?
Kirk said: Well, now that we have Bela, I'm going to put the bag on Krako. (grabs the guy in a blue suit) Listen, you. Say, that's nice material.
Man said: It ought to be. It cost a bundle.
KIRK; Get out of 'em.
Man said: Hey!
Kirk said: I said.
Kalo said: Now just a minute.
Kirk said: You too! Get out of the clothes. Nobody's going to put the bag on me any more.
Scene: Street.
Kirk is in the blue suit, and Spock in Kalo's brown one, when they leave Bela's headquarters and go over to the cream sedan parked by the kerb.
Kirk said: Wheels, Mister Spock.
Spock said: A fliwer, Captain.
Kirk said: Key in the ignition. Turn the ignition on. And nothing happens. Where's the starter? There's the starter. Yes!
Spock said: Interesting.
Kirk said: (pushing the gear lever and making grinding noises) Oops! Gears.
Spock said: Yes. Oh. I believe they had a device known as a clutch. Clutch, Captain. Perhaps one of those pedals on the floor.
Kirk said: (puts it quietly into gear) I kind of like this. I'm going to get one myself.
He lets up the clutch, and they go backwards. The car kangaroos elegantly down the street and somehow makes it to JoJo's place.
Spock said: Captain, you are an excellent starship commander, but as a taxi driver you leave much to be desired.
Kirk said: It was that bad?
They get out and note the guards at the main entrance
Kirk said: Now, that could be a bit of a problem. If they were inside, where they couldn't be seen, we could stun them with our phasers, but not out here.
Spock said: If we can get close enough to them, we should be able to render them harmless with reasonable rapidity.
A guard checks the contents of a passing perambulator.
Kirk said: They don't look like the trusting type.
Boy said: (runs over to them) It's a hit, ain't it?
Spock said: I beg your pardon?
Boy said: You're going to hit somebody. Can I watch?
Kirk said: Young man, run along and play.
Boy said: Where'd you get them ears?
Spock said: Young man
Boy said: You going to hit Krako out here? You open up and you'll be scragged from every window in the street. I can fix it for ya.
Spock said: Young man, this is likely to be quite hazardous.
Kirk said: Hold on, Spock. Out of the mouths of babes
Boy said: Who you callin' a babe?
Kirk said: I'm calling you a babe.
Boy said: You calling me a babe? (brandishes his little knife.)
Kirk said: Yeah I'm calling you a babe, but there's nothing personal in it. Sit down. (on the car bumper) You know a way we can get close to them?
Boy said: Sure.
Kirk said: How?
Boy said: What's in it for me?
Kirk said: What do you want?
Boy said: A piece of the action.
Spock said: You do not even know what the action is going to be.
Boy said: I figure it's got to be a thick percentage or you wouldn't be trying to hit Krako.
Spock said: Logical.
Kirk said: All right, young man. We'll guarantee you a piece of the action if we can pull this thing off.
Boy said: Is that a contract?
Kirk said: Done. (they shake on it) What do we do?
Boy said: You'll know what to do.
He skips across the street, fighting imaginary enemies with his very real knife.
Boy said: And that! And how do you like that? Think you can gang up on me, huh? What are you, chicken?
The guards grin as he runs over to them.
Boy said: Come on, why don't you gang up on me? I'll cut off your head and throw it in your face! Take that, and that, and falls over) Daddy, Daddy, I hurt myself!
Kirk said: That's it. Let's go.
Guard said: What's the matter? Did you hurt yourself, kid?
Boy said: I want my daddy!
Guard said: Cute kid, ain't he?
Boy said: Daddy! I want my daddy!
Kirk said: Sonny!
Boy said: I want my daddy.
Kirk said: Sonny! Wait a moment. What have they done? What have they done to you? What have you done?
Kirk hits one while Spock neck-pinches the other. There's a bit of argy-bargy just inside the door before it's over.
Kirk said: A piece of the action.
Scene: Krako's HQ.
Kirk said: No one can see. Put your phaser on stun.
They stun two guards in the corridor in front of them. Krako is coming down the stairs with his girl.
Krako said: Well, ain't this nice? I was wondering how I was going to get you back, and here you deliver yourself! Who's your friend with the ears, Kirk?
Kirk said: I think you've got it reversed, Mister Krako.
Krako said: I ain't, pally. Put down your heaters.
Spock said: Captain, I believe that perhaps it would be wise to do as he says. I just heard the sound of
Kirk said: The sound of a machine gun bolt being pulled back. (there are two more guards behind them.) (JoJo is shaking a phaser to make it work.)
Kirk said: Mister Krako, I don't, er
Krako said: So this is the fancy heater, huh? How does it work?
Kirk said: I'm trying to tell you, Mister Krako, that this is bigger than you, Oxmyx or anyone.
Krako said: The only thing I want you to tell me is how it works.
Kirk said: Can you trust all your men?
Krako said: Of course I can!
Kirk said: Well, one of these can make a man a pretty big boss, you know.
Krako said: I either trust 'em, or they're dead. Let's go in here and talk about it.
Scene: Krako's office.
Krako said: Now we got no busy little eyes to worry about. How does this thing work?
Kirk said: All right, Krako, we don't have time to show you how to play with toys! (takes the phaser back)
Krako said: Toys?
Kirk said: What do you think we're here for, to get a cut of your deal? Forget it. That's peanuts to an outfit like the Federation. Right?
Spock said: Unquestionably.
Kirk said: Right?
Spock said: Right.
Kirk said: Now look, Krako, we're taking over the whole ball of wax. You co-operate with us and maybe we'll cut you in for a piece of the action.
Spock said: A miniscule. A very small piece.
Krako said: How much is that?
Kirk said: That's, er. We'll figure it out later.
Krako said: I thought you guys had laws. No interference.
Kirk said: Who's interfering? We're taking over. Check?
Spock said: Right.
Kirk said: The planet is being taken over by the Federation, but we don't want to come in here and use our muscle, you know what I mean? That ain't subtle. So what we do is we help one guy take over the planet. He pulls the strings, and then we pull his. (to Spock) Hey, you, sit down.
They settle them selves with their feet up on Krako's desk.
Krako said: What's your cut?
Kirk said: What do you care as long as you're being cut in? Course, there's always Bela Oxmyx.
Krako said: All right, it's a deal. Call your ship. Bring down your boys and whatever else you need.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise.
Scott said: Enterprise. Scott here.
Kirk said: All right, Scotty. We made a deal with Krako.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: We did, sir?
Scene: Krako's office.
Kirk said: Yeah. We're ready to make the hit. We're taking over the whole planet as soon as you get ready.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Do you think that's wise, sir?
Scene: Krako's office.
Kirk said: Sure. We can trust Krako, but we don't have any choice. You know what I mean? He's standing about twelve feet in front of me, all ready to be our pal.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Of course, Scotty, I'd like to show him the ship, just to show him that we're, er, we're on the level. But you know how it is.
Scott said: Aye. I know indeed.
Scene: Krako's office.
Kirk said: Scotty, we'll need phasers to equip every one of Krako's men. We'll need advisors and troops to back him up on the hit. You got all that, Scotty?
Scott said: Aye, Captain.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Captain. We're preparing everything. It'll be ready when you give the word.
Scene: Krako's office.
Kirk said: You may begin, Mister Scott.
Scott said: Acknowledged, Captain.
Krako said: You mean you're going to start sending down your boys now?
Kirk said: Not exactly.
Krako is beamed away, and the astonished guards are easily overpowered again.
Kirk said: Right?
Spock said: Check.
They leave.
Scene: Transporter room.
Two armed security men have met Krako.
Krako said: How the hell'd I get here? What? What happened? (Scott enters) You. You must be that Scott fellow Kirk was talking to. I want to know what happened.
Scott said: It looks like we put the bag on you, doesn't it.
Krako said: I got rights.
Scott said: You've got nothing. You mind your place, mister, or you'll be wearing concrete galoshes.
Krako said: You mean cement overshoes?
Scott said: Er. Aye.
Scene: Street.
Kirk runs towards the car.
Spock said: Must we?
Kirk said: It's faster than walking.
Spock said: But not as safe.
Kirk said: Are you afraid of cars?
Spock said: Not at all, Captain. It's your driving that alarms me.
Kirk said: Spock, I've got the hang of it. Now go on.
The machine guns are still where Spock left them in the open top car, and Kirk still puts it into reverse first.
Scene: Krako's office.
Zabo said: (waking up) Oh, not again. (rouses the other man) Hey, wake up. You all right? (opens the door) Hey, you guys. Come in here. The Feds snatched Krako. I never seen anything like it. They're going to move in unless we stop 'em now.
Guard said: Yeah? How?
Zabo said: Well, Bela's mixed up in this somehow. I've got a sneaking hunch they're going to high-tail it back to his territory. You know what we're going to do? We're going to hit his place.
Scene: Oxmyx's office.
Mccoy said: Where are they?
Oxmyx said: Knowing Krako, he'll probably send them back on a blotter.
Kirk said: Wrong again, Oxmyx.
Mccoy said: Jim.
Kirk said: Knock it off, Sawbones. I want to talk to this creep. Now listen, I'm getting tired of playing pattycake with you penny-ante operators.
Oxmyx said: What do you mean, penny-ante operator?
Kirk said: You're a penny-ante operator. Sit down. All right, Spocko, cover him. Now listen, sweetheart. The Federation's moving in, taking over. You play ball, we'll cut you in. You don't, you're out. All the way out. You know what I mean?
Oxmyx said: Yeah, sure. Why didn't you say so in the first place? All you had to do was explain it to me.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise.
Scene: Transporter room.
Scott said: Enterprise. Scott here, sir.
Scene: Oxmyx's office.
Kirk said: You got Krako on ice?
Scott said: Aye, he's here. Mad enough
Scene: Transporter room.
Scott said: To chew neutronium, but behaving himself.
Kirk said: Okay, baby. Cool him till I flag you.
Scott said: Flag me?
Scene: Oxmyx's office.
Kirk said: Keep him until I send for him. We're going to make some old-style phone calls from this locale. So you locate the man on the other end of the blower and give him a ride to this flop.
Scott said: What?
Kirk said: Find the man at the other end of the phone
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: And transport him to these co-ordinates.
Scene: Oxmyx's office.
Kirk said: Can do, sweetheart?
Scene: Transporter room.
Scott said: Can do, Captain.
Scene: Oxmyx's office.
Scott said: Standing by.
Kirk said: Now you. Get on the blower and call the other bosses.
Oxmyx said: I sure don't know what you think you're talking about.
Kirk said: Get with it. I'm giving the orders here.
Oxmyx said: Hello. Hello?
Kirk said: Scotty?
Scott said: Scott here.
Oxmyx said: Guess who?
Kirk said: Lock in and energise.
Oxmyx said: Yeah, you bet your life I've got a lot of nerve. What are you going to do about it?
Tepo said: Coming over with my boys and we (realises he's not where he was a second earlier) Mother.
Oxmyx said: Hey, Captain, that ain't bad.
Kirk said: Yeah.
Spock said: I would advise you to keep dialing, Oxmyx.
Scene: Krako's office.
Zabo said: All right. You know what to do. We hit Bela's place and nobody comes out alive. All right. Let's go.
Scene: Oxmyx's office.
It's getting crowded and noisy. The minor bosses are all sporting bowler hats. Krako is there too. Kirk is standing on the pool table.
Kirk said: All right! All right! All right! All right! Now the Federation's taking over whether you like it or not. You people, you've been running this planet like a piecework factory. From now on, it's going to be under one roof. You're going to run it like a business. That means you're going to make a profit.
Tepo said: And what's your percentage?
Kirk said: I'm cutting the Federation in for forty percent. You got any objections?
Tepo said: Yeah! I hear a lot of talk, but all I see here is you and a couple of your boys. I don't see no Federation.
Krako said: Listen. They got a ship. I know. I was there.
Oxmyx said: Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Tepo's got a point. All we ever seen is them.
Tepo said: What, a couple of boys?
Krako said: I'm not going to believe my eyes.
general bedlam
Kirk said: Hang on a minute. Hang on a minute. Quiet! Just a moment!
Krako said: Let me say something. I only saw three guys in that ship. Maybe there ain't no more.
Kirk said: There are over four hundred guys there.
Krako said: That's your story, buster.
There's a gunfight outside in the street.
Krako said: Hey, it's my boys. They're making a hit at this place.
Everyone dashes to the windows to watch.
Oxmyx said: My boys will put you down.
Krako said: Want to bet? (gets the gun off McCoy) Keep moving. One move out of you two, I'll drill them. Give me the hardware.
Oxmyx said: Hey, that's great, Krako. Now we got hostages again. We can make a deal with the Feds up there.
Krako said: Are you kidding? This one's all mine. From now on, nobody's going no place. I'm going to be the big boss in this here territory.
Kirk said: Now, wait a minute. Wait a minute. Get that heater down. Don't you want to take a look at what you're going to fight?
Krako said: I already seen it. You're nothing, Fed.
Kirk said: All right, but at least let me call my ship one last time and say goodbye.
Krako said: Well, all right. Go ahead. Don't get smart.
Kirk said: Hello, Scotty. This is Kirk.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Enterprise. Scott here, sir.
Kirk said: Scotty, put the ship's phasers on stun. Fire a burst in a one-block radius around these co-ordinates.
Scott said: Right away, sir. Scott out.
Scene: Oxmyx's office.
The street outside is filled with green light, and everyone falls down. The watching bosses are stunned into silence for a moment.
Krako said: Gee, that's some trick.
Oxmyx said: Hey, did you see that?
Kirk said: They're not dead, just knocked out for a while. But they might just as well have been that way if we wanted them to.
Oxmyx said: Okay, okay, Kirk, so we get the message. Now, what was this syndicate deal you were talking about?
Tepo said: He was talking about a percentage.
Kirk said: I was talking about both.
Oxmyx said: Okay. A syndicate makes sense to me. I'm a peaceful man at heart, but I'm sick and tired of all these hits. I hit Krako, Krako hits Tepo, Tepo hits me. There's too many bosses. We can't get anything done.
I was thinking if there was just one, maybe somebody like you, as the top boss, then we can get things done.
Kirk said: Hey, Bela, no, no, no. The Federation can't get connected with a small-time operation like this. No, I was thinking, Bela, you would be the top boss. Krako, you'd be his lieutenant. The rest of you, I don't want any trouble from the rest of you because you'll have to answer to the Federation. We'll be back every year to collect our cut.
Tepo said: Look, you figure maybe forty percent's enough?
Kirk said: Yeah, I think forty percent's sufficient.
Oxmyx said: It's reasonable. It sounds reasonable. That sound reasonable to you?
Chorus of approval.
Kirk said: It's reasonable, Mister Oxmyx. Let's break out some of your drinking stuff and celebrate the syndicate.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Gentlemen, you two have been brooding ever since we returned to the ship.
Spock said: Brooding, Captain?
Kirk said: Brooding, Mister Spock. A sombre, emotional state. Now, do you wish to continue it or are you going to discuss it?
Spock said: Captain, I'm neither brooding nor sombre. But I do have reservations about your solution to the problem of the Iotians.
Kirk said: Ah, yes. I understand that. You don't think it's logical to leave a criminal organisation in charge.
Spock said: Highly irregular, to say the least, Captain. I'm also curious as to how you propose to explain to Starfleet Command that a starship will be sent each year to collect our cut.
Kirk said: Yes, that's a very good question, Mister Spock. I propose our cut be put into the planetary treasury and used to guide the Iotians into a more ethical system. Despite themselves, they'll be forced to accept conventional responsibilities. Isn't that logical? All right, Bones, in the language of the planet, what's your beef?
Mccoy said: I don't know how serious this is, Jim, and I don't quite know how to tell you
Kirk said: Go ahead.
Mccoy said: But in all the confusion I
Kirk said: Tell me.
Mccoy said: I think I left it in Bela's office.
Kirk said: You left it?
Mccoy said: Somewhere. I'm not certain.
Kirk said: You're not certain of what?
Mccoy said: I left my communicator.
Kirk said: In Bela's office?
Spock said: Captain. If the Iotians, who are very bright and imitative people, should take that communicator apart
Kirk said: They will, they will. And they'll find out how the transtator works.
Spock said: The transtator is the basis for every important piece of equipment that we have.
Kirk said: Everything.
Mccoy said: You really think it's that serious?
Kirk said: Serious? Serious, Bones? It upsets the whole percentage.
Mccoy said: How do you mean?
Kirk said: Well, in a few years, the Iotians may demand a piece of our action.