Bread And Circuses
Stardate: 4040.7
Original Airdate: 15 Mar, 1968
Scene: Bridge.
Everyone on the Bridge is staring at Spock's back, as he analyses some sensor data.
Spock said: No doubt about it, Captain. The space debris comes from the survey vessel SS Beagle.
Kirk said: Missing for six years, and now this junk in space.
Spock said: Portions of the antimatter nacelles, personal belongings. Captain, no signs of bodies whatsoever.
Kirk said: Then whatever destroyed the ship, the crew was able to get off safely. Navigator, compute the present drift of the wreckage.
Chekov said: Computed and on the board, sir.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, assuming that the wreckage drifted at the same speed and direction for the past six years?
Spock said: It would have come from planet four, star system eight nine two, directly ahead.
Chekov said: Only one sixteenth parsec away, Captain. We should be there in seconds.
Kirk said: Standard orbit around the planet. There may be survivors there.
Spock said: SS Beagle. Small class four stardrive vessel. Crew of forty seven, commanded by. Jim, I believe you knew him. Captain R M Merik.
Kirk said: Yes, at the academy. He was dropped in his fifth year. He went into the merchant service.
Chekov said: Coming up on the planet, captain.
A planet with lots of water, some land masses and just s few wispy white clouds.
Kirk said: Put it on the screen.
Chekov said: Definitely class M, somewhat similar to Earth.
Kirk said: Yes, similar. But the land masses and oceans are quite different, however.
Spock said: Different in shape only, Captain. The proportion of land to water is exactly as on your Earth. Density five point five, diameter seven nine one seven at the equator, atmosphere seventy eight percent nitrogen, twenty one percent oxygen. Again, exactly like Earth.
Kirk said: Exactly in some ways, different in others.
Spock said: I also picked up indications of large cities.
Kirk said: What era?
Spock said: No sign of atomic power as yet, but far enough along for radio communications, power transportation, an excellent road system.
Uhura said: Captain, both amplitude and frequency modulation being used. I think I can pick up something visual. It's a news broadcast using a system I think they once called video.
Spock said: Television was the colloquial term.
Kirk said: Put it on the screen.
Uhura said: Aye.
A black and white image of people watching as police in crash helmets arrest someone. There is a car in the foreground. Very 1950s or 60s.
Voice said: Today police rounded up still another group of dissidents. Authorities are as yet unable to explain these fresh outbreaks of treasonable disobedience by well-treated, well-protected, intelligent slaves. Now turning to the world of sports and bringing you the taped results of the arena games last night. (a sword fight) The first heat involved amateurs. They're petty thieves from City Prison. Conducted, however, with traditional weapons, it provided some amusement for a few moments. In the second heat, a slightly more professional display in the spirit of our splendid past, when gladiator Claudius Marcus killed the last of the barbarians, William B. Harrison, in an excellent example of
The picture of an old Roman fight with net and short sword is lost.
Uhura said: Transmission lost, sir. Shall I try to get it back?
Kirk said: Slaves and gladiators. What are we seeing, a twentieth-century Rome?
Spock said: Captain, the one described as the barbarian is also listed here. Flight officer William B. Harrison of the SS Beagle. At least there were some survivors down there.
Kirk said: Ready the transporter room, Mister Spock. We're beaming down.
Scene: Hillside.
The landing party of three is beamed onto a ridge, nicely silhouetted against the clear blue sky.
Kirk said: You could have selected a more convenient place, Mister Spock.
Spock said: But hardly more practical, captain. Close to the city we located, but not populated. We should not be observed.
They head down the steep slope. Spock takes some tricorder scans.
Spock said: Fascinating. This atmosphere is remarkably similar to your twentieth century. Moderately industrialised pollution containing substantial amounts of carbon monoxide and partially consumed hydrocarbons.
Mccoy said: The word was smog.
Spock said: Yes, I believe that was the term. I had no idea you were that much of a historian, Doctor.
Mccoy said: I am not, Mister Spock. I was simply trying to stop you from giving us a whole lecture on the subject. Jim, is there anything at all we know about this planet?
Kirk said: The SS Beagle was the first ship to make a survey of this star sector when it disappeared.
Spock said: Then the Prime Directive is in full force, Captain?
Kirk said: No identification of self or mission. No interference with the social development of said planet.
Mccoy said: No references to space, or the fact that there are other worlds, or more advanced civilisations.
Kirk said: Let's go.
Mccoy said: One, just once, I'd like to be able to land someplace and say, Behold, I am the Archangel Gabriel.
Spock said: I fail to see the humour in that situation, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Naturally. You could hardly claim to be an angel with those pointed ears, Mister Spock. But say you landed someplace with a pitchfork.
A gunshot rings out.
Flavius said: Don't move! Hands in the air!
Spock said: Complete Earth parallel. The language here is English.
Kirk tries to go for his phaser, and another shot hits the ground near his feet.
Flavius said: I said, don't move!
Kirk said: I think he means it, Spock.
Spock said: There would seem to be evidence to that effect.
Four men appear from behind rocks. They are wearing t-shirts with a short chain motif at the neck. The leader is barefoot and wearing shorts.
Flavius said: Who are you?
Kirk said: We come from another province.
Flavius said: (to Spock) Where are you from? What do you call those?
Spock said: I call them ears.
Flavius said: Are you trying to be funny?
Spock said: Never. Colloquial twentieth-century English. An amazing parallel.
Kirk said: We come from a place that's quite some journey from here. I doubt if you've heard
Flavius said: Uniforms. Probably some new Praetorian guard unit. I should kill you here, but Septimus would probably be displeased. Move. Move!
(As they are lead along, a guard whistles the signal that they are approaching, and two men come out of a hidden cave.
Scene: Cave entrance.
Flavius said: I didn't harm them, Septimus, as much as I wanted to.
Septimus said: (a very old man with a gentle way of speaking) Keep always in your mind, Flavius, that our way is peace.
Mccoy said: For which we are grateful, for we are men of peace ourselves.
Septimus said: Oh? Are you Children of the Sun?
Mccoy said: Well, if you're speaking of worships of sorts, we represent many beliefs.
Flavius said: There is only one true belief! Roman butchers, sent here by the first citizen.
Kirk said: Do we look like any Romans you ever saw ?
Septimus said: Then are you slaves like ourselves?
Kirk said: Our people don't believe in slavery.
Flavius said: A Roman lie. We must kill them.
Spock said: Sir, we came here looking for some friends, forty seven of them who were stranded here some six years ago. They wore clothing similar to ours. Have you heard of such men?
Flavius said: Septimus, I know killing is evil, but sometimes it's necessary.
Septimus said: No.
Flavius said: But they've located us, our hiding place. It's better to kill a few of them than all of us.
Kirk said: Wait. I can prove we're telling the truth. A small device. I'll take it out slowly. (his communicator) Kirk to Enterprise. Come in.
Scott said: Scott here, Captain.
Kirk said: Scotty, lock in on my transmission beam. Scan us.
Scott said: Scanning, sir.
Kirk said: Including ourselves, how many of us are there?
Scott said: Twelve, Captain.
Kirk said: Good, Scotty. Continue scanning. We'll maintain transmission. Kirk out. The Enterprise is our ship, somewhere at sea. That's all I can tell you. If it isn't sufficient, you will have to kill us.
Septimus said: Tell me the empire has a device like that, Flavius, and you may kill them. Otherwise, accept them as friends.
Septimus leads the way into the caves.
Captain's log, stardate 4040.7. On the surface of planet four, system eight nine two, the landing party has won the confidence of what obviously is a group of runaway slaves. They dwell in caves not far from a large city, wear rags, live under primitive conditions. But they are creatures of a heavily industrialised twentieth-century type planet very much like Earth. An amazing example of Hodgkins's law of Parallel Planet Development. But on this Earth, Rome never fell. A world ruled by emperors who can trace their line back two thousand years to their own Julius and Augustus Caesars.
Scene: Cave.
The landing party are given water, and Spock leafs through some magazines.
Septimus said: No, Captain. I'm sure I would have heard of the arrival of other men like you.
Kirk said: Perhaps you've heard, let's say, an impossible story or a rumour of men who came from the sky or from other worlds.
Septimus said: There are no other worlds.
Kirk said: The stars.
Septimus said: Lights shining through from heaven. It is where the sun is. Blessed be the sun.
Kirk said: Yes, of course.
Spock said: (brings over a magazine) Captain, I thought you might find this interesting.
Kirk said: Spock?
Spock said: Fascinating.
Kirk said: (looking at a car advert) The Jupiter Eight. Conventional internal combustion engine. You were right about the smog. But the Jupiter Eight? Mars toothpaste. Neptune bath salts.
Septimus said: Taken from the names of false gods. When I was a senator, I worshiped them too, but I heard the words of the sun. I became a Brother. For that, they made me a slave.
Kirk said: Septimus, we need your help. We must go into the city. We know that one of our missing friends was seen there recently.
Septimus said: My advice to you is to leave. Go back where you came from.
Kirk said: We can't do that. Perhaps you know his name. Merik. Captain Merik.
General consternation and animosity from the other slaves
Septimus said: Merikus?
Kirk said: Yes. He's the leader of our friends.
Septimus said: Merikus is first citizen. Butcher.
Kirk said: That doesn't sound like the same man.
Spock said: Captain, a logical question, if I may. Septimus, how many years ago did Merikus become your first citizen?
Septimus said: Perhaps five years.
Flavius said: Almost six. I was there when he became lord of the games. If he is your friend, you are no friends of ours.
Kirk said: Septimus, wherever we may be from, you must believe that it is one of our most important laws that none of us interfere with the affairs of others. If Captain Merik is Merikus, then he has violated that law, and he must be taken away and punished. Will you help us get to the truth of all this?
Septimus said: First I must discuss it with the others.
The men leave.
Spock said: Curious, Captain, the similarity in names. Were you told why Merik was dropped from the Space Academy?
Kirk said: He failed a psycho-simulator test. All it takes is a split second of indecision. Hardly the type to become a political strongman.
Mccoy said: Odd that these people should worship the sun.
Spock said: Why, Doctor?
Mccoy said: Because, my dear Mister Spock, it is illogical. Rome had no sun worshipers. Why should they parallel Rome in every way except one?
The men return.
Septimus said: We have decided. Flavius will guide you. We will provide you with suitable clothing. I caution you, take great care. The police are everywhere. May the blessings of the sun be upon you.
Scene: Countryside.
Dressed as slaves in jeans and t-shirts, the landing party are lead towards the city. Spock wears his obligatory woollen hat. They stop by a small thicket of trees.
Flavius said: We'll wait here until dark.
Kirk said: Are you a slave, Flavius?
Flavius said: You are barbarians indeed not to know of Flavius Maximus. For seven years, I was the most successful gladiator in this province.
Kirk said: Then you heard the word of the sun?
Flavius said: Yes. The words of peace and freedom. It wasn't easy for me to believe. I was trained to fight. But the words, the words are true.
Kirk said: There are many things I'd like to know
he's interrupted by rapid gunfire.
Maximus said: Hold! Don't move! Hands in the air!
Armed police round them up.
Four fleeing fish. A fine haul. Flavius Maximus.
Flavius attacks him and gets knocked down.
Maximus said: You have been too long absent from the games, Flavius. The first citizen will be pleased. Runaway slaves are always welcome. (removes Spock's hat) No, not slaves. Barbarians. It's been a long time since I've watched barbarians die in the arena.
Captain's log, stardate 4040.9. Uniformed police like those of Earth, a great city like Rome with automobiles. Astonishing similarities to twentieth-century Earth, down to the fine carbon steel in the bars.
Scene: Prison.
Spock and McCoy carry Flavius into a cell.
Kirk said: Tell Merikus I'd like to see him.
Maximus said: The first citizen? Why would he bother with arena bait like you?
Kirk said: Tell him it's Jim Kirk. Perhaps a friend.
Maximus said: Perhaps?
Kirk said: Well, if I am a friend and you don't tell him, do you really want to risk that?
They are locked in and left alone. McCoy tends to Flavius's head wound.
Kirk said: But if there have been slaves for over 2,000 years, hasn't there always been discontent, runaways?
Flavius said: Long ago there were rebellions, but they were suppressed. And with each century, the slaves acquired more rights under the law. They received rights to medicine, the right to government payments in their old age, and they slowly learned to be content.
Spock said: Even more fascinating. Slavery evolving into an institution with guaranteed medical payments, old-age pensions.
Mccoy said: Quite logical, I'd say, Mister Spock. Just as it's logical that twentieth-century Rome would use television to show its gladiator contests or name a new car the Jupiter Eight.
Spock said: Doctor, if I were able to show emotion, your new infatuation with that term would begin to annoy me.
Mccoy said: What term? Logic? Medical men are trained in logic, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Really, Doctor, I had no idea they were trained. Watching you, I assumed it was trial and error.
Flavius said: Are they enemies, Captain?
Kirk said: I'm not sure they're sure. When the slaves began to worship the sun, they became discontent again. When did all this happen?
Flavius said: Long ago. Perhaps as long ago as the beginning of the empire. The message of the sun, that all men are brothers, was kept from us. Perhaps I'm a fool to believe it. It does often seem that man must fight to live.
Kirk said: You go on believing it, Flavius. All men are brothers.
The guards return.
Maximus said: Flavius. Your friends are waiting for you. You've already been matched for the morning games. Come.
Flavius said: I will not fight. I'm a Brother of the Sun.
Maximus said: Put a sword in your hand, and you'll fight. I know you, Flavius, you're as peaceful as a bull.
Two guards take Flavius away.
Maximus said: You three come with us.
Kirk said: Three against three. We may never get a better chance.
Maximus said: No talking. Outside.
Kirk said: (looking at McCoy) I doubt if he'll get very far. He feels ill.
Mccoy said: I do?
Maximus said: Outside!
Kirk said: All right, but he'll double over before we get very far. (Spock and Kirk take McCoy's arms.)
Mccoy said: No, I think I can walk. I'll try.
McCoy suddenly doubles over in pain and two guards are sent in to help. One gets neck-pinched, the Roman is karate-chopped and the last guard is punched by the invalid.
Kirk said: Let's go.
Merik said: (blue eyed, red haired) Well done, Jim. (Armed guards appear.) I'm afraid it isn't that easy. They've been handling slaves here for two thousand years.
Claudius said: But it was exciting. They'd do well in the arena.
Kirk said: Captain Merik, isn't it ?
Merik said: Yes, it's me. This is our Proconsul, Claudius Marcus.
Claudius said: But this is no place for a reunion.
Merik said: This way. Your friends, too. There's lots to talk about, lots to explain.
Kirk said: I agree.
Merik said: Don't judge me before you know the facts. Come on, we can talk freely here. The Proconsul knows who and what we are.
Scene: Chamber.
Some small animal skins on the floor, a brass brazier, an urn and busts on plinths, and a girl preparing drinks.
Merik said: You can leave us.
The guards leave.
Merik said: Well, a celebration. A meeting of old friends.
Claudius said: Prepare food for our friends. They've come from a great distance. A great distance indeed. So, this is a Vulcan. Interesting. From what I've heard, I wish I had fifty of you for the arena.
Merik said: This other is your ship's surgeon?
Kirk said: McCoy.
Merik said: It's a pity we can't let him loose in our hospitals. Our level of medicine would improve immeasurably, I'm sure.
Claudius said: Come. You must be hungry. Gentlemen?
They sit at a table, and the girl brings over a plate.
Claudius said: Oh, try the sparrow broiled in garum. Delicious. Or perhaps some of this roast kid. Lovely thing, isn't she?
Kirk said: All right, what happened?
Merik said: We had meteor damage, Jim. I went ashore with a landing party to look for iridium ore for repairs, and I met this gentleman.
Kirk said: Go on.
Merik said: He convinced me it would be unfair to this world to carry word of their existence elsewhere.
Claudius said: Contamination. Can't risk that. Oh, you'll understand as you learn more about us.
Merik said: So I made the decision to stay.
Kirk said: What happened to your crew? Did they voluntarily beam, come ashore?
Merik said: This is an ordered world, Jim, a conservative world based on time-honoured Roman strengths and virtues.
Kirk said: What happened to your crew?
Merik said: There's been no war here for over four hundred years, Jim. Could, let's say, your land of that same era make that same boast? I think you can see why they don't want to have their stability contaminated by dangerous ideas of other ways and other places.
Spock said: Interesting, and given a conservative empire, quite understandable.
Mccoy said: Are you out of your head?
Spock said: I said I understood it, Doctor. I find the checks and balances of this civilisation quite illuminating.
Mccoy said: Next he'll be telling us he prefers it over Earth history.
Spock said: They do seem to have escaped the carnage of your first three world wars, Doctor.
Mccoy said: They have slavery, gladiatorial games, despotism.
Spock said: Situations quite familiar to the six million who died in your first world war, the eleven million who died in your second, the thirty seven million who died in your third. Shall I go on?
Claudius said: Interesting. And you, Captain, which world do you prefer?
Kirk said: My world, proconsul, is my vessel, my oath, my crew. What happened to your vessel you've explained. What happened to your oath is obvious.
Merik said: And as for my men, those that were able to adapt to this world are still alive. Those who couldn't adapt are dead. That's the way it is with life everywhere, isn't it?
Kirk said: You sent your own men into the arena?
Merik said: Just as I did, Jim, you're going to order your own people ashore.
Mccoy said: You must know that's impossible. Starfleet regulations
Claudius said: Are designed to circumvent any such order. There may be over four hundred men on your ship, Captain, but they can be brought down if it's handled properly. Say, a few at a time. You see, I have the advantage of a trained ship captain to tell me what is and what is not possible. Your communicator, Captain Kirk. Now do save us all a lot of unnecessary trouble and issue the appropriate orders.
Merik said: They're going to be arriving soon, anyway, Jim. A recon party, then a rescue party, then another rescue party. I had less men. It added up the same.
Kirk said: Do you really believe I could be made to order my own people down?
Claudius said: I believe this, Captain. That you would do almost anything rather than see these two dear friends put slowly to death.
Kirk takes the communicator.
Mccoy said: Jim.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise.
Scott said: Bridge. Scott here.
Armed guards enter.
Kirk said: Scotty, if you have a fix. (guns are pointed at his head) Stand by, Scotty.
Claudius said: Very wise of you, Captain. No point in sending up bullet-ridden corpses.
Kirk said: Yet on the other hand, my chief engineer's standing by for a message.
Claudius said: I do hope so, for your sake. Now, Captain, what are you going to order your men to do?
Kirk said: If I brought down a hundred of them armed with phasers
Claudius said: you could probably defeat the combined armies of our entire empire, and violate your oath regarding noninterference with other societies. I believe you all swear you'll die before you'd violate that directive. Am I right?
Spock said: Quite correct.
Mccoy said: Must you always be so blasted honest?
Claudius said: But on the other hand, why even bother to send your men down? From what I understand, your vessel could lay waste to the entire surface of the world. Oh, but there's that Prime Directive in the way again. Can't interfere.
Merik said: Jim, you've already started a message. Your engineer's waiting. What are you going to do?
Kirk said: Scotty. Sorry to keep you waiting.
Scott said: We were becoming concerned, Captain. You were a bit overdue.
Claudius said: Order your officers to come down.
Kirk said: Condition Green, all's well. Kirk out.
Claudius said: Guards, take them. Prepare them for the games.
Merik said: Ah, that was stupid, Jim. This is not an Academy training test. This is for real. They're taking you to die.
Ship's log, stardate 4041.2. Chief Engineer Scott recording. Captain Kirk and his landing party have checked in
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: But they have used the code term Condition Green, which means they're in trouble. But it also prohibits my taking any action. (ends log entry) Mister Chekov, pinpoint power source locations. Type, power, load factors, and how much our beams will have to pull to overload them.
Chekov said: That may take some time.
Scott said: Let it take time, lad. They're in trouble, and I'm under orders not to interfere. However, no order can stop me from frightening them. It may do no good, but it may suggest to someone just what a starship can really do. Aye.
Scene: Arena.
Actually, a painted backdrop in the Empire TV television studio. The commentator sits on scaffolding next to a camera operator.
Announcer said: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Live and direct from City Arena, and in colour, we bring you Name the Winner, brought to you tonight by your Jupiter Eight dealers from coast to coast. In just a moment, tonight's first heat. We're in a taped commercial, Proconsul. Forty seconds, then we'll be back live.
Claudius, Merik and Kirk take seats on a raised platform. Kirk is manacled, and there are two armed guards behind him. Spock and McCoy are brought out by two guards in full traditional dress.
Announcer said: Stand by. Ten seconds. And first tonight, ladies and gentlemen, a surprise extra. In the far corner, a pair of highly aggressive barbarians. Strong, intelligent, with strange ways, and I'm sure full of a lot of surprises. And facing them, two favorites here from previous encounters, Achilles and Flavius. (The canned applause is turned up by a bored sound effects man) Victory or death? And for which of them? Well, ladies and gentlemen, you know as much about that at this moment as I do because this is your programme. You name the winner.
Flavius said: I don't mind fighting, but why you?
Voice said: Begin!
Achilles takes on Spock. They are well matched. McCoy is against Flavius, and doesn't know what to do with a short sword.
Announcer said: Flavius may be getting off to a slow start, but he's never disappointed this crowd. A close one. The barbarian with the pointed ears seems to be in trouble.
Spock said: I tell you I'm well able to defeat you.
Achilles said: Fight, barbarian!
Merik said: Most of my men went the same way. I hoped I would feel it less with yours.
Spock said: I do not want to injure you.
The cat-calls and hisses are amplified. Flavius gets a taste of the whip.
Master said: Fight, you two. You bring this network's ratings down, Flavius, and we'll do a special on you.
McCoy puts more effort into it.
Claudius said: Question, Captain?
Kirk said: The rules. If Spock should finish his man off first, would he be able to help
Claudius said: We believe men should fight their own battles. Only the weak will die. My word as a Roman. Ready to order your men down, Captain?
Merik said: Maybe now you understand why I gave in. The Romans have always been the strongest, and they've had practice for over two thousand years in enslaving men, using them, killing them.
Claudius said: Quite true, Captain Kirk. The games have always strengthened us. Death becomes a familiar pattern. We don't fear it as you do.
Flavius gets whipped again
Flavius said: At least defend yourself.
Mccoy said: I am defending myself!
Flavius said: Not like that, you fool. Hold your weapon higher.
The cat-calls are replaced by cheers
Claudius said: Admit it. You find these games frightening, revolting.
Kirk said: Proconsul, in some parts of the galaxy I have seen forms of entertainment that makes this look like a folk dance.
Claudius said: Certain this isn't different, Captain? Those are your men dying, not strangers.
Kirk said: I've had to select men to die before so that others could be saved.
Claudius said: You're a clever liar, Captain Kirk. Merikus was a spaceship captain. I've observed him thoroughly. Your species has no such strength.
Merik said: He commands not just a spaceship, Proconsul, but a starship. A very special vessel and crew. I tried for such a command.
Claudius said: I see no evidence of superiority. They fight no better than your men did, Merikus. Perhaps not as well.
Achilles said: Stop running. Fight.
Spock said: Need any help, Doctor?
Mccoy said: Whatever gave you that idea?
Achilles said: Fight, you pointed-ear freak!
Mccoy said: You tell him, buster. Of all the completely ridiculous, illogical questions I ever heard in my life!
McCoy falls, and is vulnerable. Achilles is distracted so Spock punches him out then goes and neck-pinches Flavius.
Master said: A clear foul, Proconsul. Your decision?
Claudius said: Your opinion, Merikus? After all, they're like yourself.
Merik said: It's your decision, Proconsul.
Claudius said: Your opinion, Captain Kirk? Would you like me to kill them now? An easy death? Then you'd gladly accept whatever happens to you. Take them back to their cage. Well, it won't go that easily for them, Captain, nor for you. Take him to my quarters.
Scene: Chamber.
Kirk is alone in the room, and is startled when a curtain is pulled back and the blonde girl appears, wearing very little.
Drusilla said: I was told to wait for you and provide wine, food, whatever you wish. I am Proconsul's slave Drusilla. Although for this evening. (pause) For this evening I was told I am your slave. Command me.
Kirk said: It won't work.
Drusilla said: What will not work?
Kirk said: Whatever he has in mind, whatever tricks. You hear that, Proconsul? It won't work. I'm not co-operating. I may die, but you won't get any entertainment out of it.
Drusilla said: We're alone. Please believe me. I've never lied to one who owns me.
Scene: Jail.
Spock is checking the iron bars of their prison.
Mccoy said: Angry, Mister Spock, or frustrated, perhaps?
Spock said: Such emotions are foreign to me, Doctor. I'm merely testing the strength of the door.
Mccoy said: For the fifteenth time. Spock. Spock, I know we've had our disagreements. Maybe they're jokes. I don't know. As Jim says, we're not often sure ourselves sometimes, but what I'm trying to say is
Spock said: Doctor, I am seeking a means of escape. Will you please be brief?
Mccoy said: Well, what I'm trying to say is you saved my life in the arena.
Spock said: Yes, that's quite true.
Mccoy said: I'm trying to thank you, you pointed-eared hobgoblin!
Spock said: Oh, yes. You humans have that emotional need to express gratitude. You're welcome, I believe, is the correct response. However, Doctor, you must remember I am entirely motivated by logic. The loss of our ship's surgeon, whatever I think of his skill, would mean a reduction in the efficiency of the Enterprise and therefore
Mccoy said: Do you know why you're not afraid to die, Spock? You're more afraid of living. Each day you stay alive is just one more day you might slip and let your human half peek out. That's it, isn't it? Insecurity. Why, you wouldn't know what to do with a genuine, warm, decent feeling.
Spock said: Really, Doctor?
Mccoy said: I know. I'm worried about Jim, too.
Scene: Chamber.
The wine is being poured.
Kirk said: Very good. (he tries a grape) Excellent.
Drusilla said: I was concerned. I am ordered to please you.
Kirk said: I've been in some strange worlds with strange customs. Perhaps this is considered torture here.
Drusilla said: Torture? I do not understand. I do not wish to see you tortured in any way. (she kisses him) At the first sign of pain, you will tell me?
Kirk said: You'll be the first to know.
Later, when the oil lamp has burnt out, and Kirk is asleep
Claudius said: Captain. (Kirk wakes with a start) I'm sorry I was detained. Should we have our little talk now? So far on this planet we've kept you rather busy. I don't wonder you slept through the afternoon. By the way, one of the communicators we took from you is missing. Was it my pretty Drusilla by any chance?
Merik enters. There are guards in the room now too.
Claudius said: See if he has it. Not that I would have punished her. I would have blamed you. You're a Roman, Kirk, or you should have been. It's not on his person?
Merik said: No, Proconsul.
Claudius said: I am sorry I was detained. I trust there was nothing further you required?
Kirk said: Nothing except perhaps an explanation.
Claudius said: Because you're a man, I owe you that. You must die shortly, and because you are a man (pauses) Would you leave us, Merik? The thoughts of one man to another cannot possibly interest you.
Merik leaves.
Claudius said: Because you are a man, I gave you some last hours as a man.
Kirk said: I appreciate that.
Claudius said: Unfortunately, we must demonstrate that defiance is intolerable.
Kirk said: Of course.
Claudius said: But I've learned to respect you. I promise you, you will die easily, quickly.
Kirk said: I thank you. And my friends?
Claudius said: When their time comes, the same of course. Guards. Take him to the arena. Oh, we've pre-empted fifteen minutes on the early show for you. In full colour. We guarantee you a splendid audience. You may not understand because you're centuries beyond anything as crude as television.
Kirk said: I've heard it was similar.
Enterprise log, Engineer Scott reporting. All banks in readiness for disruption of power sources on the planet's surface.
Scene: Arena.
Announcer said: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Before tonight's first heat, a simple execution. Stay tuned to this channel. There's a lot of excitement coming your way.
Claudius said: Make it a quick, single thrust.
Master said: Don't move. You'll only die harder.
Flavius said: (rushing into the arena) Murderers! If you want death, fight me!
Claudius signals a guard, who fires his machine gun. The Roman is killed along with Flavius. Kirk grabs the sword and deals with another Roman.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Now, Mister Chekov. Activate.
Scene: Arena.
As the lights go out, Kirk gets himself a gun and runs.;
Claudius said: Guards, don't let him escape! Guards!
Scene: Jail.
 When the lights come on again, he's by McCoy and Spock's cell.
Mccoy said: Jim!
Kirk said: Stand back.
He shoots the lock out.
Kirk said: Obsolete, but effective.
Mccoy said: What happened, Jim?
Spock said: What did they do to you?
Kirk said: They threw me a few curves. No time to explain.
Claudius and guards come in from two different entrances.
Claudius said: Hold! We're in each other's line of fire. I pity you, Captain Merik, but at least watch and see how men die. Swords only!
So the fight starts, and Spock acquires a sword very quickly. The cell door is a defensible position.
Merik said: (into communicator) Starship, lock in on this. Three to beam
Claudius stabs him, but Merik manages to throw the communicator into the cell with the landing party.
Scott said: Enterprise to Captain Kirk. Ready to beam up three.
They disappear in a hail of bullets.
Captain's log, stardate 4041.7. Note commendation, Engineering Officer Scott. Despite enormous temptation
&gt;
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: And strong personal feelings, he obeyed the Prime Directive. His temporary blackout of the city below resulted in no interference with the society and yet saved the lives of myself and the landing party.
Scott said: Thank you, Captain.
Scott leaves as McCoy and Spock enter the Bridge.
Kirk said: Gentlemen.
Mccoy said: Captain, I see on your report Flavius was killed. I am sorry. I liked that huge sun worshiper.
Spock said: I wish we could have examined that belief of his more closely. It seems illogical for a sun worshiper to develop a philosophy of total brotherhood. Sun worship is usually a primitive superstition religion.
Uhura said: I'm afraid you have it all wrong, Mister Spock, all of you. I've been monitoring some of their old-style radio waves, the empire spokesman trying to ridicule their religion. But he couldn't. Don't you understand? It's not the sun up in the sky. It's the Son of God.
Kirk said: Caesar and Christ. They had them both. And the word is spreading only now.
Mccoy said: A philosophy of total love and total brotherhood.
Spock said: It will replace their imperial Rome, but it will happen in their twentieth century.
Kirk said: Wouldn't it be something to watch, to be a part of? To see it happen all over again? Mister Chekov, take us out of orbit. Ahead warp factor one.
Chekov said: Aye, sir.