The Enemy WIthin
Stardate: 1672.1
Original Airdate: 6 Oct, 1966
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: That should make a good specimen.
Sulu said: (holding pink animal with a horn) Temperature's starting to drop.
Kirk said: Yeah. At night it gets down to a hundred and twenty degrees below zero.
Sulu said: That's nippy.;
Fisher said: Hey!
Kirk said: What happened?
Fisher said: I fell off that bank, sir. Cut my hand.
Kirk said: Let's see it. Get back to the ship. Report to the Sickbay.
Fisher said: Yes, sir. Geological Technician Fisher. Ready to beam up.
Scene: Transporter room.
Scott said: Right. Locked onto you. Energise. Coadjutor engagement.
Wilson said: What happened?
Fisher said: I took a flop.
Wilson said: Onto what?
Fisher said: I don't know. Some kind of yellow ore.
Scott said: Magnetic. Decontaminate that uniform.
Fisher said: Yes, sir. (;eaves)
Scott said: That acted like a burnout.
Kirk said: Captain Kirk ready to beam up.
Scott said: Just one moment, Captain. It checks out okay now. You better go get a synchronic meter so we can double-check.
Wilson said: Yes sir.
Scott said: All right, Captain. Locked onto you. (Kirk stumbles as he leaves the platform) Are you all right, Captain?
Kirk said: Yes, I'm all right. Just a little dizzy.
Scott said: Let me give you a hand.
Kirk said: I can't get through there. Nothing serious. Don't leave the transporter room unattended.
Scott said: Wilson will be right back, sir.
both leave, and another Kirk materialises on the pad
Captain's Log, stardate 1672.1. Specimen-gathering mission on planet Alpha 177. Unknown to any of us during this time, a duplicate of me, some strange alter ego, had been created by the transporter malfunction.
Scene: Transporter room.
Wilson said: Captain? Are you all right, sir? Can I give you a hand, sir? Captain?
Scene: Corridor.
Uhura said: Bridge to all decks. Section duty officers, check communication lines.
Kirk said: Thank you.
Scott said: It might profit you to let Doctor McCoy give you the once-over.
Kirk said: All right, Engineer, I'll have my engines looked to.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Rand said: Ship's manifests, sir. I think they're in order now.
Kirk said: Thank you, Yeoman.
Rand said: I've checked
Kirk said: That's all.
Rand said: Yes, sir. (leaves Kirk to lie down on bed)
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: You picked a good day, Fisher. Business has been lousy. What'd you do, take a fall on purpose so you could get a little vacation?
Kirk said: Saurian brandy.
Back to duty status, Fisher. I have no sympathy for clumsiness.
Fisher said: No, sir. The hand's much better, sir. (leaves)
Mccoy said: What can I do for you, Jim?
Kirk said: (grabbing him by the neck) I said, give me the brandy! (leaves with bottle and goes to Rand's quarters)
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Kirk said: Yeah.
Spock said: Mister Spock.
Kirk said: Come in. Yes, Mister Spock, what is it?
Spock said: Is there something I can do for you, Captain?
Kirk said: Like what?
Spock said: Well, Doctor McCoy seemed to think I should check on you.
Kirk said: That's nice. Come on, Spock, I know that look. What is it?
Spock said: Well, our good doctor said that you were acting like a wild man, demanded brandy.
Kirk said: Our good doctor's been putting you on again.
Spock said: Hmm. Well, in that case, if you'll excuse the intrusion Captain, I'll get back to my work.
Kirk said: I'll tell him you were properly annoyed.
Spock said: Captain.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: What is it, Scotty?
Scott said: Transporter breakdown. Continue circuit testing. We beamed up this animal and, well, look for yourself. It's in this specimen case. (opens lid to reveal angry pink animal)
Kirk said: Yes?
Scott said: A few seconds after they sent this one up through the transporter, that duplicate appeared. Except it's not a duplicate, it's an opposite. Two of the same animal, but different. One gentle, this. One mean and fierce, that. Some kind of savage, ferocious opposite. Captain, we don't dare send Mister Sulu and the landing party up. If this should happen to a man.
Kirk said: Oh, my.
Scene: Rand's quarters.
Rand said: Oh! Captain, you startled me. Is there something that you? Can I help you, Captain?
Kirk said: Jim will do here, Janice.
Rand said: Oh.
Kirk said: You're too beautiful to ignore. Too much woman. We've both been pretending too long. (grabs her) Stop pretending. Let's stop pretending. Come here, Janice. Don't fight me. Don't fight me, Janice. (kisses her)
Rand said: Captain!
Kirk said: Just a minute, Janice. Just a minute! (forces her onto the floor, she scratches his face and gets away to the door which opens just as Fisher is passing by)
Rand said: Call Mister Spock! Call Mister Spock!
Scene: Corridor.
Fisher said: Geological Technician Fisher. Deck twelve, section (Kirk grabs him and hits him, hard)
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Kirk said: Me? My yeoman said that? I've been resting here since you left me. Alone, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Doctor McCoy reports that you demanded this brandy in Sickbay and left with it. I found this bottle in Yeoman Rand's quarters.
Kirk said: Not true. I haven't been to the Sickbay. Let's find out what's going on.
Scene: Turbolift.
Kirk said: Sickbay. (just missing the other Kirk nursing grazed knuckles, who goes into his quarters)
Scene: Sickbay.
Rand said: Then he kissed me and he said that we, that he was the Captain and he could order me. I didn't know what to do. When you mentioned the feelings we'd been hiding, and you started talking about us.
Kirk said: Us?
Rand said: Well, he is the captain. I couldn't just. You started hurting me. I had to fight you, and scratch your face.
Kirk said: Yeoman, look at me. Look at me, look at my face. Are there any scratches?
Rand said: I was sure I scratched you. I was frightened. Maybe
Kirk said: Yeoman. I was in my room. It wasn't me.
Rand said: Sir, Fisher saw you, too.
Kirk said: Fisher saw?
Rand said: If it hadn't been. I can understand. I don't want to get you into trouble. I wouldn't have even mentioned it!
Kirk said: It wasn't me!
Fisher said: It was you, sir.
Kirk said: Do you know what you're saying?
Fisher said: Yes, I know what I'm saying.
Mccoy said: Back to that bed, bucko. Come on, let's go.
Spock said: You can go now, Yeoman. (Rand leaves) There's only one logical answer. We have an impostor aboard.
Captain's Log, stardate 1672.9. On the planet's surface, temperatures are beginning to drop, our landing party there in growing jeopardy. Due to the malfunction of the ship's transporter, an unexplained duplicate of myself definitely exists.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: How did all this happen?
Scott said: I don't know sir, but when Fisher came up, his suit was covered with a soft yellow ore that had highly unusual properties. It may have caused an overload. Can't tell, not yet.
Kirk said: Does the transporter work at all?
Scott said: Yes sir, but we don't dare bring up the landing party. It might be duplicated like this animal.
Kirk said: How long will it take you to find the trouble?
Scott said: Can't say, sir.
Kirk said: We just can't leave those four men down there. It's getting dark. They'll die. The surface temperature of that planet goes down to a hundred and twenty degrees below zero at night.
Scott said: We're doing everything we can, sir.
Kirk said: Yes, I know, Scotty.
Spock said: About your double, Captain.
Kirk said: Yes, er, yes, we'll have to find him. Search parties, Mister Spock. Organise search parties.
Spock said: We can't take a chance on killing it. We have no previous experience, no way of knowing what would happen to you.
Kirk said: Yes, that's right. We don't know, but the men have to be armed. The men are to be armed, with their phasers locked, I repeat, locked, on setting number one. There can't be any chance of him being killed. He's to be taken without. If the men are forced to fire, he can't be killed.
Spock said: How shall we explain it to them, Captain? The search parties are to capture you?
Kirk said: Tell them.
Spock said: The search parties, Captain.
Kirk said: Yes, I'll make an announcement to the entire crew, tell them what happened. It's a good crew. They deserve to know.
Spock said: Captain, no disrespect intended, but you must surely realise you can't announce the full truth to the crew. You're the Captain of this ship. You haven't the right to be vulnerable in the eyes of the crew. You can't afford the luxury of being anything less than perfect. If you do, they lose faith, and you lose command.
Kirk said: Yes, I do know that, Mister Spock. What I don't know is why I forgot that just now. Mister Spock, if you see me slipping again, your orders, your orders are to tell me.
Spock said: Understood, Captain.
Captain's Log, stardate 1673.1. Something has happened to me. Somehow, in being duplicated, I have lost my strength of will. Decisions are becoming more and more difficult.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Kirk said: This is the Captain speaking. There's an impostor aboard the ship, a man who looks exactly like me and is pretending to be me. This man is dangerous. Utmost caution is to be observed. All crew members are to arm themselves. The impostor may be identified by scratches on his face. Repeat, the impostor may be identified by scratches on his face.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Section chiefs, assign personnel to the search. All search parties
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Kirk said: report to Mister Spock for assignment.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Something?
Spock said: About the phaser weapons to be set for stunning force and locked.
Kirk said: Oh, yes, yes. All hand phasers must be set on base cycle, stunning force.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Kirk said: The impostor is not to be injured. Use minimum force. Repeat, the imposter
Kirk said: I'm Captain Kirk!
Kirk said: Is not to be injured.
Kirk said: I'm Captain Kirk. I'm Captain Kirk! I'm Captain Kirk! I'm Captain Kirk! (goes to mirror, covers scratches with makeup, opens door) Wilson!
Wilson said: Sir?
Kirk said: Wilson, give me your phaser.
Wilson said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: How have you been?
Wilson said: Fine, sir. (Kirk grabs and hits him)
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: How's it going down there, Mister Sulu?
Sulu said: It's already twenty degrees below zero. Can't exactly
Scene: Briefing room.
Sulu said: call it balmy.
Kirk said: Isn't there any way we can help them?
Spock said: Thermal heaters were transported down. They duplicated. They won't operate.
Kirk said: Then we've got to get those men up.
Crewman said: Mister Spock?
Spock said: Spock here.
Crewman said: Transporter Technician Wilson found injured near the Captain's cabin. He says the impostor attacked him, called him by name, took his hand phaser.
Spock said: Acknowledged. Continue the search.
Kirk said: We've got to find him before he, but how?
Spock said: Apparently, this double, however different in temperament, has your knowledge of the ship, its crew, its devices. This being the case, perhaps we can outguess him by determining his next move. Knowing how the ship is laid out, where would you go to elude a mass search?
Kirk said: The lower levels. The Engineering deck.
Scene: Engineering.
Spock said: Set and locked on base cycle to stun, not to kill. What about your phaser, Captain? Don't you think we ought to get some help, Captain?
Kirk said: No. I don't want anyone else to see the
Spock said: Captain, you ordered me to tell you.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, if I'm to be the Captain, I've got to act like one.
they split up to search, and Kirk comes face to face with himself
Kirk said: You can't hurt me. You can't kill me. You can't. Don't you understand? I'm part of you. You need me. I need you.
Other Kirk said: I don't need you. (Spock neck-pinches him, and his phaser fire hits a panel instead)
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: He'll be regaining consciousness soon, and not knowing what his physical state is, I don't think I dare give him a tranquilizer of any kind. I think we'd better bind him.
Kirk said: Yes. yes, all right. What's the matter with me?
Spock said: Judging from my observations, Captain, you're rapidly losing the power of decision.
Mccoy said: You have a point, Spock?
Spock said: Yes, always, Doctor. We have here an unusual opportunity to appraise the human mind, or to examine, in Earth terms, the roles of good and evil in a man. His negative side, which you call hostility, lust, violence, and his positive side, which Earth people express as compassion, love, tenderness.
Mccoy said: It's the Captain's guts you're analysing. Are you of that, Spock?
Spock said: Yes, and what is it that makes one man an exceptional leader? We see indications that it's his negative side which makes him strong, that his evil side, if you will, properly controlled and disciplined, is vital to his strength. Your negative side removed from you, the power of command begins to elude you.
Kirk said: What is your point, Mister Spock?
Spock said: If your power of command continues to weaken, you'll soon be unable to function as Captain. You must be prepared for that.
Mccoy said: You have your intellect, Jim. You can fight with that!
Kirk said: For how long?
Spock said: If I seem insensitive to what you're going through, Captain, understand it's the way I am.
Scott said: Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Scott said: Mister Scott, sir, on the lower level of the Engineering deck.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: I've found a new trouble with the transporter. The casing has a wide gap ripped in it. (the phaser damage) The main circuits
Scene: Sickbay.
Scott said: have been burned through. The abort control circuit is gone altogether.
Scene: Planet surface.
Sulu said: Can you give us a status report, Captain? Temperature's still dropping. Now forty one degrees below zero.
Kirk said: We've located the trouble. It shouldn't be much longer.
Sulu said: Do you think you might be able to find a long rope somewhere and lower us down a pot of hot coffee?
Scene: Sickbay.
Kirk said: I'll see what we can do.
Sulu said: Rice wine will do, if you're short on coffee.
Kirk said: Engineering deck, Kirk here.
Scott said: Scott here, Captain.
Kirk said: That unit, Scotty, status report.
Scott said: The transporter unit ioniser. Nothing much left of it, sir.
Kirk said: How bad is it?
Scott said: We can't repair it in less than a week.
Captain's Log, stardate 1673.5. Transporter still inoperable. My negative self is under restraint in Sickbay. My own indecisiveness growing. My force of will steadily weakening. On the planet, condition critical. Surface temperature is seventy five degrees below zero, still dropping.
Scene: Planet surface.
Sulu said: (using phaser to heat rocks) I think we ought to give room service another call. That coffee's taking too long. Enterprise, this is Sulu.
Scene: Briefing room.
Kirk said: Kirk here, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Hot line direct to the Captain. Are we that far gone?
Kirk said: I gave everybody the afternoon off. I'm watching the store.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: How is it down there?
Sulu said: Oh, lovely, except that the frost is building up. We're using hand phasers to heat the rocks. One phaser quit on us, three still operating. Any possibility of getting us back aboard before the skiing season opens down here?
Scene: Briefing room.
Spock said: This is Spock, Mister Sulu. You'll have to hold on a little longer. There's no other way. Survival procedures, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Per your training programme, Mister Spock.
Scene: Sickbay.
other Kirk is screaming
Kirk said: What happened?
Mccoy said: Apparently the body functioning weakened during the duplication process. A fact I failed to consider.
Kirk said: He's not dying?
Kirk said: Yes, he is.
Other Kirk said: Help me.
Kirk said: How can he die? Can I survive without him?
Mccoy said: I don't know, Jim.
Kirk said: Don't be afraid. Here's my hand. Hold on. You don't have to be afraid. I won't let go. Hold on. You won't be afraid if you use your mind and think! Think! You can do it. That's it!
Mccoy said: Jim, he is back! Jim, you can use that brandy now. In fact, I'll join you.
Kirk said: I have to take him back inside myself. I can't survive without him. I don't want him back. He's like an animal, a thoughtless, brutal animal, and yet it's me. Me.
Mccoy said: Jim, you're no different than anyone else. We all have our darker side. We need it! It's half of what we are. It's not really ugly, it's human.
Kirk said: Human.
Mccoy said: Yes, human. A lot of what he is makes you the man you are. God forbid I should have to agree with Spock, but he was right. Without the negative side, you wouldn't be the Captain. You couldn't be, and you know it. Your strength of command lies mostly in him.
Kirk said: What do I have?
Mccoy said: You have the goodness.
Kirk said: Not enough. I have a ship to command.
Mccoy said: The intelligence, the logic. It appears your half has most of that, and perhaps that's where man's essential courage comes from. For you see, he was afraid and you weren't.
Spock said: Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Spock said: Spock here. Would you come to the transporter room. We think we may have found an answer.
Kirk said: Coming.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: What is it?
Scott said: We've found a way to get the transporter working, sir.
Spock said: We've attached some bypass and leader circuits to compensate for the difference. Tied directly into the impulse engines, there shouldn't be more than a five point variation in the velocity balance. I suggest we send the animal through. Captain.
Kirk said: Yes, yes. Go ahead.
Scott said: (opening box with angry animal in it) I'll grab him by the scruff of the neck and hold him as long as I can.
Kirk said: Don't hurt him.
Spock said: It's painless and quick. The animal will be unconscious for only a few minutes. (sedates it)
Scott said: If this doesn't work, I don't know what will.
Spock said: Energise. Reverse.
Spock said: The shock of putting him back together seems to have been too much for him.
Mccoy said: He's dead, Jim.
Captain's Log, stardate 1673.1. Entry made by Second Officer Spock. Captain Kirk retains command of this vessel, but his force of will rapidly fading. Condition of landing party critical. Transporter unit still under repair.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: Autopsy in-depth. Hurry. I don't know. Animal could have died of some kind of shock.
Spock said: For once, I agree with you.
Mccoy said: I said could have, Mister Spock. We won't know until we get a full post-mortem.
Spock said: No autopsy is necessary to know that the animal was terrified, confused. It was split into two halves and suddenly thrust back together again. Thus shock induced by blind terror.
Kirk said: Yes, yes, that sounds likely.
Spock said: It couldn't understand. You can. You have your intelligence controlling your fear.
Kirk said: Get the transporter room ready.
Mccoy said: Could be, if, maybe. All guesswork so far. Just theory. Jim, why don't you give me a chance to do an autopsy and let Spock check the transporter circuits again.
Kirk said: That sounds, sounds reasonable. We should double-check everything.
Spock said: Aren't you forgetting something, Captain?
Kirk said: No, I don't think I've for
Spock said: Your men on the planet surface. How much time do they have left?
Kirk said: Yes, that's right. The men. We have to take the chance, Bones. Their lives
Mccoy said: Suppose it wasn't shock, Jim. Suppose death was caused by transporter malfunction. Then you'd die. They'd die, anyway. Jim, you can't risk your life on a theory!
Spock said: Being split in two halves is no theory with me, Doctor. I have a human half, you see, as well as an alien half, submerged, constantly at war with each other. Personal experience, Doctor. I survive it because my intelligence wins over both, makes them live together. Your intelligence would enable you to survive as well.
Kirk said: Help me. Somebody make the decision.
Spock said: Are you relinquishing your command, Captain?
Kirk said: No. No, I'm not.
Mccoy said: Well then, we can't help you, Jim. The decision is yours.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, ready the transporter room. Bones, continue the autopsy.
Uhura said: Captain Kirk, I have a tie-in with Sulu now.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Scene: Planet surface.
Sulu said: Captain K-Kirk, Sulu here. One hundred seventeen below. Can't last much longer.
Scene: Sickbay.
Sulu said: Can't see clearly, Doctor, to read top indicator. Think the cold penetrating communicator. Two men unconscious. No time. No. Can't wait. No time.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu. Mister Sulu. Can't wait. Can't let them die.
Other Kirk said: What are you going to do?
Kirk said: Go through the transporter, both of us.
Other Kirk said: There's nothing I can do to stop you.
Kirk said: It's what I have to do. It's what I have to do. What we have to do.
Other Kirk said: I won't fight you anymore. Oh, I feel so weak. I'll be glad when this is over. (grabs Kirk and knocks him out)
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: Janice, hello.
Rand said: Captain, I
Kirk said: Yeoman, I owe you an explanation.
Rand said: No.
Kirk said: Yes, I do. The transporter malfunctioned, divided me, created a duplicate. The animal part of me came to your cabin. He even scratched me to make us look more alike. I'd like the chance to explain it to you. You don't mind if I come to your cabin later?
Rand said: No, sir.
Kirk said: (enters turbolift) Bridge.
Scene: Bridge.
Farrell said: No word from Mister Sulu, sir.
Other Kirk said: Prepare to leave orbit, Mister Farrell. Well?
Farrell said: Captain!
Other Kirk said: I gave you an order, Mister Farrell.
Farrell said: But what about
Other Kirk said: They can't be saved. Prepare to leave orbit.
Farrell said: Yes, sir.
Spock said: Captain, I thought the plan
Other Kirk said: I've changed my mind. Man your station, Mister Spock. (McCoy enters with another Kirk, identically dressed) Grab him. He's the impostor.
Mccoy said: No!
Other Kirk said: McCoy, he's fooled you.
Mccoy said: He (the one in the captain's chair) attacked him.
Other Kirk said: Mister Spock, you know who I am. You know what that is.
Farrell said: Mister Spock, which one? What do we do?
Spock said: We'll let the captain handle this.
Other Kirk said: I'm the captain. Isn't that obvious? Look at his face. Remember the scratches? Look how he's tried to hide them. He wants you to think that he's Captain Kirk. You know who I am.
Kirk said: Yes, I know.
Other Kirk said: You want to kill me, don't you? Farrell, James, grab him. He'll destroy the ship! I'm the Captain. Don't you understand? I'm captain of the ship! (starts attacking the crew) I'm the captain! This is my ship! My ship! It's mine! I'll kill you.
Kirk said: Can half a man live?
Other Kirk said: Take another step, you'll die.
Kirk said: Then we'll both die.
Other Kirk said: Please, I don't want to. Don't make me. Don't make me. (Kirk takes phaser off him) I don't want to go back. Please! I want to live!
Kirk said: You will. Both of us.
Other Kirk said: I want to live!
Scene: Transporter room.
Spock said: You'll have to hold on to him, Captain.
Kirk said: Mister Spock.
Spock said: Captain?
Kirk said: If this doesn't work.
Spock said: Understood, Captain.
Kirk said: Mister Spock.
Spock said: Ready. (beams them out)
Mccoy said: Well, Mister Spock? (one figure is beamed back) Jim?
Kirk said: Get those men aboard fast.
Spock said: Right away, Captain.
Mccoy said: (as the party is wheeled away) Severe exposure and frostbite, but I think they'll make it. How do you feel, Jim?
Kirk said: How? I've seen a part of myself no man should ever see.
Scene: Bridge.
Farrell said: Status report, green.
Spock said: All sections report ready, sir.
Kirk said: Good. Thank you, Mister Spock, from both of us.
Spock said: Shall I pass that on to the crew, sir?
Kirk said: The impostor's back where he belongs. Let's forget him.
Rand said: Captain? The impostor told me what happened, who he really was, and I'd just like to say that. Well, sir, what I'd like is
Kirk said: Thank you, Yeoman.
Spock said: The, er, impostor had some interesting qualities, wouldn't you say, Yeoman?
Kirk said: This is the Captain speaking. Navigator, set in course correction. Helmsman, steady as she goes.