The Enterprise Incident
Stardate: 5027.3
Original Airdate: 27 Sep, 1968
Enterprise Medical Log, stardate 5027.3. Doctor Leonard McCoy recording. I'm concerned about Captain Kirk. He shows indications of increasing tension and emotional stress.
Scene: Bridge.
Chekov said: I have completed the assignment, Captain. A theoretical incursion into
Kirk said: Yes, Mister Chekov. I can read, and as usual your theoretical evaluations do not tally with mine. Return to your duty and I'll let you know when your work is satisfactory.
Kirk said: Mister Spock. Full sensor scan of the region, please.
Spock said: I did give a full report
Kirk said: Yes, Mister Spock, that was the past. I'm concerned with the present. Or is it becoming too much for this crew to present me current information?
SPOCK; No, sir. Compliance presents no problem.
Kirk said: Then, Mister Spock, comply.
Spock said: Sensor scan to one half parsec. Negative, Captain.
Kirk said: Very well.
Mccoy said: I can find no reason for the captain's behaviour, except possibly that we've been on patrol too long without relief and diversion. He has resisted all of my attempts to run a psychological profile on him.
Sulu said: Maintaining course and speed, sir.
Kirk said: Change course. Come about to one eight five, mark three.
Sulu said: But, sir, that'll lead us directly into the Romulan Neutral Zone.
Kirk said: Yes, very perceptive, Mister Sulu. I know where the course change takes us. Execute.
Sulu said: Aye, sir.
Spock said: Increasing sensor scan to one parsec. All scanners report clear. Nothing in our immediate vicinity.
Kirk said: Better and better, Mister Spock.
Sulu said: Captain, leaving Neutral Zone. Now entering Romulan space.
Scott enters the Bridge.
Kirk said: Very well, Mister Sulu.
Scott said: Lieutenant, when did the order come through?
Uhura said: Order?
Scott said: From Starfleet. The order to enter the Neutral Zone.
Uhura said: There's been no order I know of, Mister Scott.
Scott said: Surely the Captain couldn't be doing this on his own authority.
Kirk said: If you two have complaints, you can bring them out into the open.
A sinister shape appears on the viewscreen.
Scott said: That's a Klingon ship! But it couldn't be, not in this area.
Spock said: Intelligence reports Romulans now using Klingon design.
Kirk said: Sound Red Alert. Man battle stations. Stand by main phasers.
Uhura said: Battle stations. All hands, battle stations.
Spock said: A second ship has appeared. (another one decloaks) Correction, there are now three. We are surrounded.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura, code a message to Starfleet Command. Advise them of our situation. Include all log entries to this point.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, your sensors read clear. What happened?
Spock said: I have a theory, Captain.
Uhura said: Captain Kirk, I'm receiving a class two signal from the Romulan vessel.
Kirk said: Put it on the main viewing screen, Lieutenant, and complete that message to Starfleet Command.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Tal said: (a thin male) You have been identified as the star ship Enterprise, Captain James T. Kirk last known to be in command.
Kirk said: Your information is correct. This is Captain Kirk.
Tal said: I am Sub-commander Tal of the Romulan fleet. Your ship is surrounded, Captain. You will surrender immediately, or we will destroy you.
Kirk said: Lieutenant. (mutes sound) They want something, or they would have destroyed us by now.
Spock said: True, Captain. That would be standard Romulan procedure.
Kirk said: It's my ship they want, and very badly.
Spock said: It would be a great prize.
Kirk said: Lieutenant. (sound on) Save your threats. If you board this ship, I'll blow it up. You'll gain nothing.
Tal said: Who is that beside you?
Kirk said: My first officer, Commander Spock.
Tal said: Vulcan. (his communicator beeps and he answers it) Yes, Commander. Yes, Commander. No one should decide quickly to die, Captain. We give you one of your hours. If you do not surrender your ship at the end of that time, your destruction is certain. We will be open to communication should you wish it.
Kirk said: You understand that Starfleet Command has been advised of the situation?
Tal said: The subspace message will take three weeks to reach Starfleet. The decision is yours, Captain. One hour.
Scene: Briefing room.
Kirk said: The design of the ship is the same. Mister Spock, you said you had a theory on why your sensors didn't pick up the new ships until they were upon us.
Spock said: I believe the Romulans have developed a cloaking device which renders our tracking sensors useless.
Kirk said: If so, Romulans could attack in Federation territory before we knew they were there, before a vessel or planet could get even begin to get their defences up.
Scott said: They caught us right enough.
Kirk said: Well, that's a brilliant observation, Mister Scott. Do you have any other helpful opinions?
Scott said: We've not got many choices.
Kirk said: We have three. We can fight and be destroyed, or we can destroy the Enterprise ourselves and keep her from the Romulans. Or we can surrender. Opinions, gentlemen.
Scott said: If the Enterprise is taken by Romulans, they'll know everything there is to know about a starship.
Spock said: If we had not crossed the Neutral Zone, on your order, you would not now need our opinions to support a decision which should never have had to be made.
Mccoy said: Jim, you ordered us? You had no authority!
Kirk said: Dismissed, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Jim!
Kirk said: I said dismissed.
McCoy leaves.
Uhura said: Bridge to Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: The Romulan vessel is signalling again, sir.
Scene: Briefing room.
Kirk said: Put them on the screen.
Uhura said: Aye, aye, sir.
Tal said: My commander wishes to speak with you, Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Put him on.
Tal said: The commander wishes to see you and your first officer aboard this vessel. It is felt this matter requires discussion.
Kirk said: Why should we walk right into your hands?
Tal said: Two of my officers will beam aboard your vessel as exchange hostages while you are here.
Kirk said: What guarantee do we have they'll beam aboard our ship once we're on yours?
Tal said: Granted, we do not easily trust each other, Captain, but you are the ones who violated our territory. Should it not be we who distrust your motives? However, we agree to simultaneous exchange.
Kirk said: Give us your transporter co-ordinates. We're beaming aboard.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: One final order, Engineer Scott. If we do not return, the Enterprise must not be taken. If the Romulans attempt it, you're to fight, and if necessary, destroy yourselves. Is that clear?
Scott said: Perfectly clear.
Kirk said: Energise.
As Kirk and Spock beam out, two Romulans beam in. Once solid, they draw their weapons. Scott scowls.
Scene: Romulan Commander's office.
The figure in the curved chair swivels round to reveal that the Commander is a woman in a uniform that barely covers her bottom, and thigh-length boots held up by suspender belt.
Commander said: Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Commander. I'm honoured.
Commander said: I don't think so, but we have an important matter to discuss. And your superficial courtesies are an overture to that discussion. You are the first officer?
Spock said: Spock.
Commander said: I speak first with the Captain. You may wait outside.
Spock and the two guards leave
Commander said: The matter of trespass into Romulan space is one of galactic import, a violation of treaties. Now I ask you simply, what is your mission here?
Kirk said: Instrument failure caused navigational error. We were across the Neutral Zone before we realised it, then we were surrounded by your ships before we could get back.
Commander said: A starship? One of the Starfleet's finest vessels? You're saying instrument failure as radical as you suggest went unnoticed until you were well past the Neutral Zone?
Kirk said: Accidents happen. Cut off back-up systems malfunction. We were due for overhaul two months ago.
Commander said: I see. But you were able to navigate with this malfunction?
Kirk said: The error was corrected.
Commander said: But I doubt it'll clear you of espionage.
Kirk said: We were not spying, Commander.
Commander said: Your language has always been most difficult for me, Captain. Perhaps you have another word for it.
Kirk said: You're grossly mistaken if you think we were there
Commander said: Captain, if a Romulan vessel ventured far into Federation territory without good explanation, what would a starbase commander do? You see, it works both ways. I hardly believe you are the injured party. Spock, come in.
Spock and the guards enter.
Commander said: The captain has made his statement.
Spock said: I understand.
Commander said: I must admit some surprise on seeing you, Spock. We were not aware of Vulcans aboard the Enterprise.
Spock said: Starfleet is not in the habit of informing Romulans of its ships' personnel.
Commander said: Quite so. Yet there are certain ships, certain officers, that are known to us. Your situation appears most interesting.
Kirk said: What earns Spock your special interest?
Commander said: He is a Vulcan. Our forebears had the same roots and origins. Something you wouldn't understand, Captain. We can appreciate the Vulcans, our distant brothers. I have heard of Vulcan integrity and personal honour. There's a well-known saying, or is it a myth, that Vulcans are incapable of lying?
Spock said: It is no myth.
Commander said: Then tell me truthfully now, by your honour as a Vulcan, what was your mission?
Spock said: I reserve the privilege of speaking only when it will not violate my honour as a Vulcan.
Commander said: It is unworthy of a Vulcan to resort to subterfuge.
Spock said: You're being clever, Commander. That is unworthy of a Romulan. It is not a lie to keep the truth to oneself.
Commander said: Then there is a truth here that remains unspoken.
Kirk said: You've been told everything. There's nothing else to say.
Commander said: There is Mister Spock's unspoken truth. You knew of the cloaking device that we have developed. You deliberately violated Romulan space with a blatant spy mission, by order of the Federation.
Kirk said: We've been all through that, Commander!
Commander said: We have not even begun! There's no force that I can use on a Vulcan that will make him speak. That is a fact. But there are Romulan methods completely effective against humans and human weaknesses.
Spock said: You would not resort to them, Commander. They would prove ineffective against the captain.
Commander said: Then they will leave him dead, or what might be worse than dead. But I will know your unspoken truths.
Kirk said: Let her rant. There's nothing to say.
Spock said: I cannot allow the captain to be further destroyed. The strain of command has worn heavily upon him. He's not been himself for several weeks.
Kirk said: That's a lie!
Spock said: As you can see, Captain Kirk is a highly sensitive and emotional person. I believe he has lost the capacity for rational decision.
Kirk said: Shut up, Spock!
Spock said: I'm betraying no secrets. The commander's suspicion that Starfleet ordered the Enterprise into the Neutral Zone is unacceptable. Our rapid capture demonstrates its foolhardiness.
Kirk said: You filthy liar!
Spock said: I am speaking the truth for the benefit of the Enterprise and the Federation. I say now and for the record, that Captain Kirk ordered the Enterprise across the Neutral Zone on his own initiative and his craving for glory.
Kirk said: (having to be held back by the guards) I'll kill you, you filthy traitor! I'll kill you! I'll kill you!
Spock said: He is not sane.
Commander said: (into comm. system) Attention, Enterprise, I am speaking to you from the Romulan flagship.
Scene: Bridge.
Commander said: The USS Enterprise, under command of Captain James T. Kirk, is formally charged with espionage. The testimony of First Officer
Scene: Sickbay.
Commander said: Spock was highly instrumental in confirming this intrusion into Romulan space was not an accident. First Officer Spock's testimony was specific that your ship was not under orders from Starfleet Command or the Federation council to perform such a spy mission.
Scene: Romulan Commander's office.
Commander said: It was Captain Kirk who was solely responsible. Since the crew had no choice but to obey orders, the crew will not be held responsible. Therefore, I am ordering Engineer Scott, presently in command of the Enterprise, to follow the Romulan flagship
Scene: Bridge.
Commander said: To our home base. You will there be processed and released to Federation Command. Until judgment is passed, Captain Kirk will be held in confinement.
Scott said: Security, put our two Romulan hostages in the brig. Lieutenant Uhura, give me a channel to that ship.
Uhura said: Channel is open, Mister Scott, and you are tied in.
Scott said: This is Lieutenant Commander Scott. The Enterprise takes no orders, except those of Captain
Scene: Romulan Commander's office.
Scott said: Kirk, And we will stay right here until he returns. And if you make any attempt to board or commandeer the Enterprise, it will be blown to bits along with as many of you as we can take with us.
Commander said: You humans make a brave noise. There are ways to convince you of your errors.
Kirk said: Did you hear that, you coward? You've betrayed everything of value you ever knew. Did you hear the sound of human integrity?
Commander said: Take him to the security room.
Kirk is dragged out, struggling.
Commander said: A Vulcan among humans. Living, working with them. I would think the situation would be intolerable to you.
Spock said: I am half Vulcan. My mother is a human.
Commander said: To whom is your allegiance then? Do you call yourself Terran or Vulcan?
Spock said: Vulcan.
Commander said: How long have you been a Starfleet officer, Spock?
Spock said: Eighteen years.
Commander said: And you serve Captain Kirk. Do you like him? Do you like your shipmates?
Spock said: The question is irrelevant.
Commander said: Possibly, but you are subordinate to Captain Kirk's orders, even to his whims.
Spock said: My duty as an officer is to obey him.
Commander said: You are a superior being. Why do you not command?
Spock said: I do not desire a ship of my own.
Commander said: Or is it that no one has offered you, a Vulcan, that opportunity?
Spock said: Such opportunities are extremely rare.
Commander said: For someone with your capabilities and accomplishments, opportunities are made and will be. I will see to that, if you'll stop looking on the Federation as the whole universe. It is not, you know.
Spock said: That thought has occasionally crossed my mind.
Commander said: You must have your own ship.
Spock said: Commander, shall we speak plainly? It is you who desperately need a ship. You want the Enterprise.
Commander said: Of course. It would be a great achievement for me to bring home the Enterprise intact. It would broaden the scope of my powers greatly. It would be the achievement of a lifetime. And it would open equal opportunities for you.
Kirk is finally flung into the Romulan brig, where he tests out the pain-giving properties of the force-field across the doorway.
Scene: McCoy's quarters.
Uhura said: Bridge to Doctor McCoy.
Mccoy said: McCoy here.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Doctor, you must beam aboard the Romulan flagship immediately. There's been an injury.
Scene: McCoy's quarters.
Mccoy said: I don't make house calls.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Doctor, it's Captain Kirk!
Scene: Romulan Brig.
McCoy is scanning Kirk, who is twitching slightly.
Mccoy said: He'll recover, but he'll need further attention. Inform your superior.
Scene: Romulan Commander's office.
She answers the comm., listening on the earpiece. They keep conversations private, these people.
Commander said: Yes? I'll come there. Attend me.
Scene: Romulan Corridor.
Two guards walk a discreet distance behind them.
Commander said: I neglected to mention, I'll expect you for dinner. We have much to discuss.
Spock said: Indeed.
Commander said: Allow me to rephrase. Will you join me for dinner?
Spock said: I am honoured, Commander. Are the guards also invited?
She dismisses them. They walk on, and Spock turns a corner.
Commander said: Mister Spock. That corridor is forbidden to all but loyal Romulans.
Spock said: Of course. I shall obey your restrictions.
Commander said: I hope that one day there will be no need for you to observe any restrictions.
Spock said: It would be illogical to assume that all conditions remain stable.
Scene: Romulan Brig.
Commander said: Are you the doctor?
Mccoy said: McCoy. Chief medical officer.
Commander said: Captain Kirk's condition?
Mccoy said: Well, you can see for yourself, he's mentally depressed, physically weak, disoriented, displays feelings of persecution and rebellion.
Commander said: Then by your own standards of normality, this man is not fully competent.
Mccoy said: No, not now.
Commander said: Mister Spock has stated that he believes the captain had no authority or order to cross the Neutral Zone. Could this mental incapacity have afflicted him earlier?
Mccoy said: Yes, it's possible.
Commander said: Mister Spock, the doctor has now confirmed your testimony as to the mental state of your captain. He was and is unfit to continue in command of the Enterprise. That duty has fallen on you. Are you ready to exercise that function?
Spock said: I am ready.
Mccoy said: Spock, I don't believe it. There's no price you could pay that would make him sell out.
Spock said: The matter is not open for discussion, Doctor.
Mccoy said: What do you mean, the matter's not open for discussion?
Commander said: That's enough, Doctor. As a physician, your duty is to save lives. Mister Spock's duty is to lead the Enterprise and its crew to a safe haven.
Spock said: There is no alternative, Doctor. The safety of the crew is now the paramount issue. It is misguided loyalty to resist any further.
Kirk said: You traitor. I'll kill you. I'll kill you. I'll kill you!
Kirk lunges feebly at Spock, who places his hand over Kirk's face. Kirk falls back, face contorted with pain.
Mccoy said: What did you do? What did you do?
Spock said: I was unprepared for his attack. I instinctively used the Vulcan death grip.
Mccoy said: Your instincts are still good, Mister Spock. The captain is dead.
Scene: Sickbay.
The body of Kirk lies on a bed, bathed in green light. McCoy exits through one door, and Chapel enters through the other. Kirk's eyes open. CHAPEL: Doctor! Doctor McCoy! Kirk's eyes shut again. The heart monitor starts thumping. Doctor McCoy!
Mccoy said: I left orders that no one come in here.
Chapel said: But he's alive, alive!
Mccoy said: Well now that you know it, you might as well assist me. Hand me the physiostimulator.
Chapel said: But he was dead. Their doctors certified he was dead.
Mccoy said: Spock gave him a nerve pinch to simulate death.
Chapel said: Then Mister Spock isn't a traitor, and you knew that and you didn't
Mccoy said: I didn't know it until I beamed aboard the Romulan ship. Jim and Spock were operating under Federation orders.
The green light goes out as Kirk wakes up properly.
Kirk said: Oh. (sitting up) My neck feels like it's been twisted off.
Mccoy said: That's the Vulcan death grip for you.
Chapel said: There's no such thing as a Vulcan death grip.
Kirk said: Ah, but the Romulans don't know that. Sure fooled the doctors.
Mccoy said: You took a big chance they didn't start an autopsy.
Kirk said: As far as the rest of the crew's concerned, I'm still dead.
Chapel said: : Why?
Kirk said: That's what this whole masquerade was about. To keep the Enterprise and the Federation off the hook.
Mccoy said: So that if anything went wrong, you would be the one to blame.
Kirk said: Bones, I want you to prepare for surgery.
Mccoy said: What for?
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: Sickbay to Bridge.
Scott said: Scott here, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Mister Scott, will you report to Sickbay.
Scott said: Sickbay? I can't leave the bridge at a time like this.
Scene: McCoy's office.
Mccoy said: You have to. It's urgent.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: We're surrounded by enemy vessels ready to attack us. I don't know of anything more urgent than that.
Scene: McCoy's office.
Mccoy said: Well, I do. Mister Scott, please.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: All right, Doctor. It better be important. Scott out.
Scene: Sickbay.
Scott comes storming in and stutters to an astonished halt.
Scott said: All right, Doctor, what's so urgent that... Captain? Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Yes.
Scott said: Well, you look like the devil himself, but as long as you're alive. What's it all about?
Kirk has slanted eyebrows and pointed ears.
Kirk said: Are those Romulan officers still aboard the ship?
Scott said: They're in the brig, sir.
Kirk said: I'll need a Romulan uniform.
SCOTT; Aye. It'll be a pleasure.
Scene: Romulan Commander's quarters.
Commander said: I've had special Vulcan dishes prepared for you. I hope they're to your liking.
Spock said: I am very flattered, Commander. There's no doubt that the cuisine aboard your vessel is far superior to that of the Enterprise. It is indeed a very powerful recruiting inducement.
Commander said: We have other inducements.
She offers him a glass of blue liquid. He accepts, they silently toast each other and drink.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk is in Romulan uniform
Mccoy said: What the devil is Spock doing? What's delaying him?
Kirk said: I wish I knew. Scotty, are you sure we have a clear channel to Spock?
Scott said: Aye, sir. No doubt of it.
Kirk said: Then we can't wait any longer. Prepare to beam me aboard the flagship.
Scott said: But Mister Spock hasn't sent the proper co-ordinates yet.
Kirk said: It can't be helped, Scotty.
Mccoy said: You're taking an awful chance, Jim.
Kirk said: Just don't put me inside a bulkhead. Energise.
Scene: Romulan corridor.
Kirk finishes materialising just before a Romulan comes around a corner.
Romulan said: Centurion. I'm sorry, no one is allowed
Kirk said: I've just effected an escape from the Federation vessel. I have important information for Sub-commander Tal. Where is he?
Romulan said: He's in control central, sir.
Kirk said: Good. I shall remember to mention your alertness to him. Return to your duty.
Romulan said: Thank you, Centurion.
Scene: Romulan Commander's quarters.
Now, orange liquid is being poured out as Spock eats.
Commander said: You have nothing in Starfleet to which to return. I offer, we offer you an alternative. We will find a place for you, if you wish it.
Spock said: A place?
Commander said: With me. Romulan women are not like Vulcan females. We are not dedicated to pure logic and the sterility of non-emotion. Our people are warriors. Often savage. But we are also many other pleasant things.
Spock said: I was not aware of that aspect of Romulan society.
Commander said: As a Vulcan, you would study it. As a human you would find ways to appreciate it.
Spock said: Please believe me. I do appreciate it.
Commander said: I am so glad. Now one final step to make the occasion complete. You will lead a small party of Romulans aboard the Enterprise, and there you will take your rightful place as its commander. And you will lead the ship to a Romulan port, with my flagship at its side.
Spock said: Yes, of course, but not just this moment. An hour from now will do even better. Would it not, Commander?
Commander said: Yes. Yes, it will, Mister Spock. You do know I have a first name.
Spock said: I was beginning to wonder.
Commander said: Well, I do. Would you like to hear it?
She whispers in his ear.
Spock said: How rare, and how beautiful. But so incongruous when spoken by a soldier.
Commander said: If you will give me a moment, the soldier will transform herself into a woman.
She leaves the room.
Spock said: Spock to Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Spock said: Captain
Scene: Romulan ship.
Spock said: Are you prepared to beam over?
Kirk said: I'm already on board, Spock. Do you have the information?
Scene: Romulan Commander's quarters.
Spock said: Yes, Captain. The cloaking device is in an area near the commander's quarters. It is closely guarded and off-limits to all but authorised personnel. What is your present location?
Scene: Romulan Bridge.
Officer said: Sub-commander Tal. I'm receiving an alien transmission from within our vessel, sir.
Tal said: Alien? Are you certain?
Officer said: Yes, Sub-commander.
Tal said: I must know the source!
Officer said: Triangulating now, sir.
Scene: Romulan ship.
Kirk said: Spock, I'll get the cloaking device. Will you be able to get back to the Enterprise without attracting their attention?
Scene: Romulan Commander's quarters.
Spock said: Unknown, Captain. At present, I am rather heavily
He quickly shuts and hides his communicator as the door opens, and the Commander enters. She is wearing a figure hugging dress.
Commander said: Is my attire now more appropriate, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Commander, your attire is not only more appropriate, it should actually stimulate our conversation.
He makes the Vulcan V-sign. She does the same, and they touch hands.
Scene: Secure Area.
Guard said: Centurion, have you clearance for this area? I do not recognise you.
Kirk said: There's an intruder aboard. Has someone tried to gain entrance there?
Guard said: I must see your authorisation, sir.
Kirk said: Over there!
He knocks the guard out.
Scene: Romulan Commander's quarters.
Now they are stroking each other's face.
Commander said: It's hard to believe that I can be so moved by the touch of an alien hand.
Spock said: I must confess that I too am moved emotionally. I know it is illogical.
Commander said: Mister Spock, we mustn't question what we truly feel. Accept what is happening between us, even as I do.
The doorbell buzzes
Tal said: Commander? Permission to enter.
Commander said: Not now, Tal.
Tal said: It is urgent, Commander.
She leaves Spock and goes to the door. Tal and guards enter.
Commander said: Enter.
Tal said: Commander, we have intercepted an alien transmission.
Commander said: Locate its source.
Tal said: We have, Commander. This room.
Spock comes out from behind the dividing curtain and shows his communicator.
Commander said: The cloaking device. Bring him.
Scene: Cloaking device room.
Kirk manages to get in and starts looking around.
Romulan said: Halt. Don't move. Who are you? What are you doing in here?
Kirk said: There's an enemy spy aboard. He'll be after the cloaking device.
Romulan said: Drop your weapon.
Kirk does so, and as the Romulan bends to pick it up he kicks him unconscious. As Tal, Spock, the Commander and the guards make their way down the corridor, Kirk takes the globe with bits of Nomad sticking out of it, out of its control console.
Kirk said: Scotty, energise.
Scene: Transporter room.
Scott said: But, sir, what about Mister Spock?
Kirk said: We'll just have to hope he can buy us enough time to get this cloaking device installed.
Scott said: It'll have to hook into our deflector shield control.
Kirk said: Can you do it?
Scott said: I don't know, sir.
Kirk said: You have fifteen minutes, Scotty.
Scene: Cloaking device room.
Tal said: Commander, the cloaking device is gone.
Commander said: Full alert. Search all decks.
Tal and a guard leave.
Spock said: That will be profitless, Commander. I do not believe you will find it.
Commander said: You must be mad.
Spock said: I assure you I am quite sane.
Commander said: Why would you do this to me? What are you that you could do this?
Spock said: First officer of the Enterprise. (Broken-hearted, she slaps his face.) What is your present form of execution?
Captain's log, stardate 5027.4. Commander Scott has less than fifteen minutes to install the Romulan's cloaking device and get it working. I hope Mister Spock can buy us the time we need.
Scene: Bridge.
As Scott struggles with the alien tech in Engineering, occasionally saying 'Drat', Kirk gets into his own uniform and walks onto the Bridge.
Sulu said: Captain!
Chekov said: You're alive!
Uhura said: They said you'd been killed, sir.
Kirk said: The report was premature.
Chekov said: Captain, your ears. What happened?
Kirk said: We'll discuss it later. Mister Sulu, lay in a course for home. Mister Chekov, take the sensors. Mister Spock is still aboard the Romulan flagship. I want his body readings pinpointed and isolated. That was not a request, gentlemen.
Chekov said: Aye, sir.
Sulu said: Aye, sir.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Scene: Romulan Commander's quarters.
Commander said: Return to your station, Sub-commander. The boarding action on the Enterprise will begin with my command. If they resist, destroy her.
Tal leaves.
Commander said: Execution of state criminals is both painful and unpleasant. I believe the details are unnecessary. The sentence will be carried out immediately after the charges have been recorded.
Spock said: I demand the Right of Statement first.
Commander said: You understand Romulan tradition well. The right is granted.
Spock said: Thank you. I shall not require much time. No more than twenty minutes, I should say.
Commander said: It should take less time than that to find your ally, who stole the cloaking device. You will not die alone. Recording the Romulan Right of Statement. Proceed, Commander Spock.
Spock said: My crime is sabotage. I freely admit my guilt. (Scott is continuing to work) The oath I swore as a Starfleet officer is both specific and binding. As long as I wear the uniform, my duty is to protect the security of the Federation. Clearly, your new cloaking device is a threat to that security. I carried out my duty.
Commander said: Everyone carries out his duty. You state the obvious, Spock.
Spock said: There is no regulation regarding the content of my statement. May I continue?
Commander said: Very well. Your twenty minutes is almost up.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Mister Chekov, there's only one Vulcan aboard that ship. He should be easy enough to locate.
Chekov said: Romulans and Vulcans appear to read almost exactly alike. There is just a slight difference which. Got him, sir.
Kirk said: Feed the co-ordinates to the transporter room on the double. Have them prepare to beam him aboard on my signal.
Uhura said: Captain Kirk. Mister Scott is on the intercom for you, sir.
Kirk said: Go ahead, Scotty.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: I've got that device installed, but bless me if I know whether it'll work.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: It's the biggest guess I've ever made.
Kirk said: Stand by, Scotty.
Chekov said: Sir, transporter room has the co-ordinates and is ready for beaming.
Kirk said: Transporter room, beam Mister Spock aboard.
Scene: Romulan Commander's quarters.
Spock said: Beyond the historic tradition of Vulcan loyalty, there is also the combined Romulan-Vulcan history of obedience to duty.
She hears the transporter whine and runs around the desk to throw her arms around him.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Transporter room reports Mister Spock aboard, sir, and the Romulan commander.
Kirk said: The commander?
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: All right. Have them report to the Bridge on the double. Mister Sulu, take us away from the Romulans. Warp factor nine.
Scene: Romulan Bridge.
Officer said: Sub-commander, the enemy vessel is moving away at extreme speed, sir.
Tal said: Alert all vessels. Weapons officer, bring main batteries to bear on the Enterprise.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Holding at warp nine, sir.
Kirk said: Scotty, throw the switch on that device.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: I did, sir.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: It's not working.
Commander said: I would give you credit, Captain, for getting this far. But you will be dead in a moment and the credit would be gratuitous.
Kirk said: Lieutenant, open a channel to the Romulan vessel.
Uhura said: Aye, sir. I have Sub-commander Tal, sir.
Kirk said: Establish two-way visual contact.
Tal said: We have you under our weapons, Enterprise. You cannot escape.
Kirk said: This is Captain Kirk. Hold your fire. We have your commander aboard.
Tal said: Commander?
Commander said: Destroy this vessel. I gave you a direct command! Tal!
Kirk said: Break contact!
Scene: Romulan Bridge.
Tal said: Helmsman, flank speed. Weapons officer, stand by to fire main batteries as soon as we reach optimum range.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Scotty, we're running out of time.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: Captain, I'm working as fast as I can.
Scene: Bridge.
Commander said: You see, Captain? Your effort is being wasted.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, distance from the Romulan vessel?
Spock said: One hundred and fifty thousand kilometres, Captain, and closing very rapidly.
Kirk said: Stand by, phasers. Commander, you'll forgive me if I put up a fight.
Commander said: Of course. It's expected.
Spock said: One hundred thousand kilometres. They should commence firing at us within the next twelve point seven seconds.
Kirk said: Scotty.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: It's ready now, Captain, but I don't know whether our circuits can handle this alien contraption.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Throw the switch.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: It'll likely overload.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Throw the switch.
(Scott does, and the Enterprise gently vanishes, like a Cheshire cat.
Scene: Romulan Bridge.
Tal said: Weapons officer, commence fire. (sees Enterprise disappear) Gone. They have the cloaking device! Quickly, compute enemy course from last position and open fire!
Officer said: Yes, sir.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu, come about. Three one eight mark seven.
Sulu said: Three one eight mark seven, sir. Executing.
They cut underneath the Romulan ship.
Spock said: The cloaking device is working perfectly, and the commander has informed me that even the Romulan sensors cannot track a vessel so equipped.
Kirk said: Thank you, Mister Spock. Cancel Red Alert. We'll let you off at the nearest Federation outpost.
Commander said: You are very generous, Captain. If I may be taken to your brig, I will take my place as your prisoner.
Kirk said: Mister Spock will have the honour of escorting you to your quarters.
Commander said: Captain.
Kirk said: Commander.
Scene: Turbolift.
Spock said: Deck two. It is regrettable that you were made an unwilling passenger. It was not intentional. All the Federation wanted was the cloaking device.
Commander said: The Federation. And what did you want?
Spock said: It was my only interest when I boarded your vessel.
Commander said: And that's exactly all you came away with.
Spock said: You underestimate yourself, Commander.
Commander said: You realise that very soon we will learn to penetrate the cloaking device you stole.
Spock said: Obviously. Military secrets are the most fleeting of all. I hope that you and I exchanged something more permanent.
They start to step out into the corridor.
Commander said: It was your choice.
Spock said: It was the only choice possible. You would not respect any other.
Commander said: It will be our secret.
Scene: Bridge.
Chekov said: Entering Neutral Zone, Captain.
Kirk said: Very good, Mister Chekov. Thank you, Mister Leslie.
Mccoy said: Sickbay to Bridge.
Kirk said: What is it, Bones?
Scene: McCoy's office.
Mccoy said: Well, if all the shouting's over up there, I'd like for you to report to Sickbay.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: What for?
Mccoy said: Well, you're due in surgery. I'm going to bob your ears.
Spock said: Captain, please go. Somehow they do not look aesthetically agreeable
Scene: McCoy's office.
Spock said: On humans.
Mccoy said: Well, are you coming, Jim?
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: Or do you want to go through life looking like your First Officer?
Kirk said: I'm on my way.