Assignment: Earth
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 29 Mar, 1968
Captain's log. Using the lightspeed breakaway factor, the Enterprise has moved back through time to the twentieth century. We are now in extended orbit around Earth, using our ship's deflector shields to remain unobserved. Our mission, historical research. We are monitoring Earth communications to find out how our planet survived desperate problems in the year 1968.
Scene: Bridge.
The ship rocks as if being hit by something.
Kirk said: Alert status. Force shields on maximum. Leslie, begin sensor scan.
Spock said: Transporter room to Captain.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: Kirk here. What's happening?
Spock said: It appears we have accidentally intercepted someone's transporter beam, Captain.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: It's incredibly powerful.
Kirk said: It's impossible. The twentieth century had no such
Scene: Transporter room.
Spock said: Captain, something is beaming aboard this vessel.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: I'll be right there.
Scene: Transporter room.
Spock said: The beam is originating at least one thousand light years away.
Scott said: No transporter beam can reach that far, not even in our century.
Kirk enters.
Kirk said: Something is shaking us apart.
Scott said: It's locked, it's locked our circuits wide open.
One of the transporter pads has activated.
Kirk said: You're right. Something is beaming aboard.
It's a man in a dark suit, holding a black cat. He steps down from the platform and speaks calmly.
Seven said: Why have you intercepted me?
Kirk said: Security.
Security said: Security.
Kirk said: Transporter room, on the double.
Security said: On our way, sir.
Seven said: Please identify yourselves.
Kirk said: This is the United Spaceship Enterprise. I'm Captain Kirk, commanding.
Seven said: (to the cat) Yes, I heard him, Isis. We're aboard a space vessel. From what planet?
Kirk said: Earth.
Seven said: That's impossible. In this time period, there weren't (notices Spock) Humans with a Vulcan? You're from the future, Captain. You're going to have to beam me down to Earth immediately.
Security arrive.
Kirk said: Phasers on stun.
Seven said: Careful, Isis. All right. Captain Kirk. My name is Gary Seven. I am a human being from the twentieth century. I was on my way
Kirk said: Humans of the twentieth century do not go beaming around the galaxy, Mister Seven.
Seven said: I've been living on another planet far more advanced. I was beaming to Earth when you intercepted me.
Kirk said: The location of that planet?
Seven said: They wish their existence kept secret. Even in your time, it will remain unknown.
Scott said: It's impossible to hide a whole planet.
Seven said: Impossible for you, not for them. Captain Kirk, I am of this time period. You are not. You interfere with me with what I have to do there, and you'll change history. You'll destroy the Earth and probably yourselves, too.
Spock said: If what he says is true, Captain, every second we delay him could be dangerous.
Kirk said: And if he's lying?
Seven said: This is the most critical period in Earth's history. The planet I'm from wants to help Earth survive.
Kirk said: What if it turns out you're an invading alien from the future?
Spock said: A most difficult decision, Captain.
Kirk said: I can't beam you down without further proof one way or the other. Security confinement.
Security said: This way, please.
Kirk said: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: McCoy here.
(Seven attacks the security men. Spock neck-pinches him but is thrown off.
Mccoy said: Jim. Jim! Jim. What's going on there?
Kirk gets a phaser and stuns Seven as he starts to work the transporter controls.
Mccoy said: Sickbay to transporter room.
Scene: McCoy's office.
Mccoy said: Jim, what's going on down there?
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: Bones, check the prisoner you'll find in security confinement. I want a medical analysis fast. Is he or isn't he human?
Captain's log, supplemental. A man in a twentieth century business suit. What is he? Not even Spock's Vulcan neck pinch could stop him. Without our phasers, he would have over powered all five of us. I find it difficult to believe the mysterious Mister Seven can be human, and yet, suppose he is?
Scene: Briefing room.
Spock is stroking the cat, who is purring.
Kirk said: What do you make of the cat, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Quite a lovely animal, Captain. I find myself strangely drawn to it.
Kirk said: This is the captain. All science, engineering, and supervisory personnel, lock into the briefing room. Our next decision can be of enormous consequence, not only to us but to Earth's entire future. You've already been given as much information as we have. Please break in at any time with analysis of that information. Navigation report.
Chekov said: We have analysed the direction of his beam, sir. Our star maps show no habitable planets in that area of the galaxy.
Spock said: He did say his planet was hidden, Captain.
Kirk said: Engineering.
Scott said: Still unable to analyze it, sir. It was so powerful, it fused most of our recording circuits. Could have brought him back through great distances, could have brought him back through time. There's no way for us to know.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, historical report.
Spock said: Current Earth crises would fill a tape bank, Captain. There will be an important assassination today, an equally dangerous government coup in Asia, and, this could be highly critical, the launching of an orbital nuclear warhead platform by the United States countering a similar launch by other powers.
Kirk said: Weren't orbital nuclear devices one of this era's greatest problems?
Spock said: Most definitely. Once the sky was full of orbiting H-bombs, the slightest mistake could have brought one down by accident, setting off a nuclear holocaust.
Scene: McCoy's office.
Mccoy said: McCoy here.
Kirk said: Bones, hurry with that report. Join me in the briefing room with your analysis.
Mccoy said: Acknowledged.
Scene: Brig.
Seven tests the forcefield blocking the doorway. Then, behind the guard's back, he takes a pen from his pocket and turns it into a device that shuts the forcefield off. He also uses it to stop the guard from shooting him.
Seven said: You're tired. Go to sleep.
The guard slides down the wall with a grin on his face as Seven makes his escape.
Scene: Briefing room.
Mccoy said: Well, I must admit the sensor readings seem too good. Human readings, yes, but not a single physical flaw. Totally perfect body.
Kirk said: If an alien needed a body.
;
Spock said: He might be inclined to prepare a perfect one, Captain. But then again he may be telling the truth.
Kirk said: Gentlemen, I need proof. All you're telling me is that on the one hand he may be lying and on the other
The cat exits the room.;
Security said: Security alert. All decks alert. The prisoner has escaped. All decks alert.
Kirk said: This is the Captain. Inform us
Uhura said: Bridge to Captain, transporter circuits show someone preparing to beam down.
Kirk said: Try to override. Shut it off!
Scene: Transporter room.
The cat arrives as Seven finishes setting the controls.
Seven said: I know, Isis. But we'll be gone before they get here.
They beam away just as Kirk, McCoy and Spock dash into the room.
Scene: Apartment - main room.
A display case full of glasses splits in two, revealing a massive safe door behind it. The locking wheel turns, the safe door opens and Gary Seven carrying Isis the cat walks out of a fog into the main room. The safe door shuts itself behind him and is hidden again behind the shelves of glasses. Seven goes to the window and looks down onto a street filled with people and traffic.
Seven said: You're right, Isis. It is primitive. It's incredible that people can exist like this. At least we won't have to. Not for long. Computer on.
A bookcase swings open to reveal a black screen, circular monitor and control panel.
Computer said: (high-pitched staccato female) Computer on.
Seven said: Specify locations of agents two oh one and three four seven.
Computer said: Identify self.
Seven said: Simply check my voice pattern. You'll find me listed as Supervisor one nine four. Code name Gary Seven.
Computer said: Voice pattern matches, but I have no listing of a Gary Seven assigned this planet.
Seven said: Computer, I am a class one supervisor. You are ordered to override previous instructions and answer my questions.
Computer said: I am a Beta Five computer capable of analytical decisions. Please confirm identity as supervisor by describing nature of agents and mission here.
Seven said: Computer, I caution you. I have little love for Beta Five snobbery. Override. All right. Agents are male and female, descendants of human ancestors taken from Earth approximately six thousand years ago. They're the product of generations of training for this mission. Problem. Earth technology and science have progressed faster than political and social knowledge. Purpose of mission. To prevent Earth's civilisation from destroying itself before it can mature into a peaceful society.
Computer said: Incomplete but sufficient. Location of agents unreported for three days.
Seven said: Why didn't you say so in the first place? No, don't answer that. Simply begin search immediately. Recheck all news broadcasts, decode any government intercepted message
Computer said: I am aware of proper search procedures, one nine four.
Scene: Transporter room.
There are no clouds at all over North and Central Africa, the Middle East and into the Indian subcontinent as the Enterprise orbits Earth. No green vegetation either.
Scott said: We can estimate only within a thousand metres or so where he beamed down, Captain.
Kirk said: If we beam down, can you compare our position with his control setting?
Scott said: Aye.
Spock said: Following him down is a major risk, Captain. If we ourselves do anything that changes history
Kirk said: I'm aware of that. But I must know if he's lying, and we can't answer that sitting up here. Have ship's stores prepare the proper costumes. Stand by to beam us down.
Scene: Apartment -main room.
Computer said: In response to nuclear warhead placed in suborbit by other major power, United States today launching suborbital platform with multi-warhead capacity. Purpose, to maintain balance of power.
Seven said: That's the same kind of nonsense that almost destroyed planet Omicron Four.
Computer said: Analysis correct. Earth situation similar. Mission of agents two oh one and three four seven. Set malfunction on United States rocket.
Seven said: Progress of mission Has the rocket been set to malfunction?
Computer said: Negative. No progress.
Seven said: How much time before launch?
Computer said: Exactly one hour, twenty seven minutes, twelve seconds.
Seven said: Computer, record the following. Unless agents are found immediately, I must undertake their mission.
Scene: Street.
Kirk and Spock have managed to beam down in suits and overcoats (and woolly hat for Spock of course
Kirk said: Scotty, lock in on our position.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: Lead us to him.
Scott said: Locked in. Proceed one nine five degrees true.
Scene: Apartment - office.
The computer is fabricating identity papers for Seven, as a Colonel with the CIA, a Lieutenant in the NYPD and a Colonel with the NSA. It has also produced a map of McKinley Rocket Base. Then a young woman in an orange and purple mini-dress lets herself into an adjoining room.;
Roberta said: Hello? Anybody here? Looks like your lucky day, Roberta. They can't dock you if they don't know you're late.
Seven comes in from the main room.
Seven said: Where have you been?
Roberta said: Oh, the subway got stalled
Seven said: Where have you been for the past three days?
Roberta said: Now, wait a minute. Why should I tell you? Who are you, anyway?
Seven said: Where's three four seven?
Roberta said: With three four eight?
Seven said: Two oh one, code responses are not necessary.
Roberta said: Listen, friend, maybe I'd just better call the police right now.
Seven said: Sit down.
Roberta said: Who do you think you are?
Seven said: I said sit down.
Roberta said: Okay, I will.
Seven said: I'll say one thing for you. You play your role well. But that is no longer necessary. I'm Supervisor one nine four, code name Gary Seven. I need a complete report
Roberta said: Report.
Seven said: Yes, report. Everything you have done for the past three Earth days.
He gestures to the typewriter.
Roberta said: Oh. Everything I've done?
Seven said: Everything you've done.
Roberta said: Well, okay. (puts a sheet of paper in it.) Well, let's see.
Seven said: Not with your fingers.
He flicks a switch on the side of the machine.
Roberta said: Well, how do you expect me to type, with my nose? Did you see that? The machine typed everything I. It's typing everything I'm saying! Stop it. Stop it! Stop it! (He turns it off.) Okay. That does it. I quit!
Seven said: Wait a minute.
Roberta said: I'm quitting right now!
Seven said: You're not acting, are you?
Roberta said: Acting? I'm leaving. Goodbye. (Seven locks the door remotely with his pen.) Hey. Hey!
Seven activates a green cube on the desk.
Seven said: Tie in to computer.
Computer said: Computer on.
Seven said: Scan unidentified female present.
Computer said: Roberta Lincoln. Human. Profession, secretary. Employed by three four seven and two oh one. Description. Age twenty, five feet seven inches, one hundred twenty pounds, hair presently tinted honey blonde. Although behaviour appears erratic, possesses high IQ. Birthmarks
Roberta said: Hey.
Computer said: Small mole on left shoulder. Somewhat larger star-shaped mark on her
Roberta said: Hey, watch it! Okay, I'll bite. What is it?
Seven said: Miss Lincoln. Miss Lincoln, What kind of work did your employers say they were doing here?
Roberta said: Research for a new encyclopaedia? No? No.
Seven said: All right. You can go. Of course, if you do, you won't be helping your country. Unless you don't care about that.
Roberta said: Sure, I care. What do you think I am?
Seven said: I don't know, Miss Lincoln, what you are, not yet. All I know is that my incompetence has made you aware of very secret devices that are vital to the security of this nation.
Roberta said: Oh. Well, what are you guys around here, anyway? FBI? Some kind of government agents, huh? (The cat enters as he hands her one of his new IDs) CIA. Very groovy.
Seven said: Thank you, Isis. I'll be right in. (Isis leaves) It's a trained cat, Just like guard dogs, that kind of thing.
Roberta said: Yeah?
Seven said: Don't let anybody in here. I'll be busy.
Roberta said: Okay.
Scene: Street.
Outside the apartment building.
Kirk said: Scotty,
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: Triangulate on this location.
Scott said: Correlated. Readings indicate a greater altitude. Approximately thirty metres higher, sir.
Scene: Street.
Kirk said: Out.
Scene: Apartment - main room.
Computer said: Occurrence, automobile accident. Location Highway nine four nine, ten miles north of McKinley Rocket Base. Agents three four seven and two oh one were killed instantly.
Seven said: That just doesn't make sense. For them to die in something as useless as an automobile accident. Are the facts verified?
Computer said: Verified. Descriptions of bodies are exact.
Scene: Apartment building.
Kirk and Spock step out of the elevator by apartment 12A
Kirk said: Go ahead, Scotty.
Scott said: Proceed five metres, two four seven degrees true.
They arrive outside 12B, and Kirk rings the doorbell.
Scene: Apartment - office.
Seven said: Computer off.
Roberta answers the door to the office as the computer hides behind the bookcase again.
KIRK; Where's Mister Seven?
Roberta said: I don't know what you're talking about. Listen, you guys can't come in here.
Kirk said: Where's Mister Seven?
Scene: Apartment - main room.
Seven activates the safe-cum-transporter.
Roberta said: You can't come in here. Now, get out. What do you think you're doing? This is a government office.
Seven picks up Isis and leaves.
Scene: Apartment - office.
Roberta said: Neither one of you can come in here.
Kirk said: Where's Mister Seven?
Roberta said: This is against the rules.
Spock said: In here, Captain. (at door to main room)
Roberta said: What do you think you're doing? You want me to (picks up the telephone) Send the police. Eight Eleven East Sixty Eighth Street, apartment twelve B.
Kirk said: Give me the phone.
Scene: Apartment - main room.
Seven is setting the dial on the 'safe'
Roberta said: No, get your hands off of me, you big jerk! Who do you think you are? Let go!
Scene: Apartment - office.
There's a physical tussle going on between Kirk and Roberta.
Roberta said: What do you think you're doing, you big jerk? What's the big idea?
Scene: Apartment - main room.
Roberta said: Mister Seven, help! Help!
Scene: Apartment - office.
Spock takes over from Kirk in manhandling Roberta.
Roberta said: Let go of me! Stop it! Don't go in there! What's the big idea? Get your hands off of me! I mean it!
She pulls off his hat and sees his ears and eyebrows. What are you?
Kirk blasts open the connecting door as Seven dematerialises and the safe shuts itself.
Scene: McKinley Rocket Base.
(Carrying Isis, Seven walks out of Assembly Area B-10 hangar - warning, liquid hydrogen - into the early morning sunshine. Or late afternoon. The shadows are fairly long.
Tannoy said: Attention. Stand by for launch area clearance. It is now sixty minutes to launch. T minus sixty and counting.
And the big white US rocket stands gleaming on its launch gantry.
Scene: Apartment - main room.
Kirk finds the plans to the rocket base lying on the table.
Scene: Apartment - office.
Kirk said: Where's Mister Seven?
Roberta said: I'm warning you, I've already called the police.
Kirk said: Plans to McKinley Rocket Base.
Scene: Apartment building corridor.
Police 1 said: There it is, Charlie. Open up in there. Police.
Roberta manages to shout before Spock can get his hand over her mouth.
Police 1 said: Open up in there! It's the police!
Scene: Apartment - office.
Kirk said: Wide scan, Scotty. We'll be moving. Spock, in here. Spock!
They go into the main room and Roberta dashes to open the door to the police.
Roberta said: In there!
Scene: Apartment - main room.
Kirk said: Now, Scotty!
Police 1 said: What's going on here?
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk, Spock and the two policemen are beamed up. Kirk and Spock dash off the transporter pad leaving the flat-foots standing, slack-jawed.
Kirk said: Reverse and energise.
Police 1 said: Charlie.
They are beamed back into the apartment, watched by Roberta.
Scene: McKinley Rocket Base - launch control.
Tannoy said: Attention. It is now fifty minutes to launch. T minus fifty and counting. All systems clear. All systems clear. Standing by for inspection of launch pad.
Scene: Outside Launch Control.
Seven is standing next to launch director Cromwell's car.
Lipton said: (a security guard) You! Speak to you a moment?
Seven said: Yeah, sure, Sarge. (hands over his NSA ID) There it is.
Lipton said: I'll have to confirm this, Colonel.
Seven said: All right.
Lipton said: Just put the cat down and keep your hands at your side.
Seven said: All right.
Lipton said: (into telephone) Give me security. Identification check.
Seven said: Be careful, lsis. Don't get stepped on.
Lipton said: Yes, security?
Isis yowls, distracting the guard. Seven whips out his 'pen' and zaps the guard into immobility.
Seven said: (into telephone) Security, this is Sergeant Lipton, and we're all straightened out down here. Right, thank you very much. Goodbye. All right, Sergeant. Now let's just turn right around. We're going to walk this way. You just sit right down right right there and have a little nap.
Grinning inanely, the guard sits on the ground by the building and goes to sleep. TANNOY: Attention. It is now forty five minutes to launch. T minus forty five and counting. All systems clear. All systems clear.
Scene: Launch Control.
Tannoy said: Standby for inspection of launch pad.
Cromwell said: Heading for the gantry. Sound alert.
Scene: Rocket gantry.
Tannoy said: Attention. First alert. First alert. Begin clearing gantry area. Clear launch pad. Safety group, clear launch pad. All systems continue to green. Repeat. All systems still green. Standing by for inspection of launch pad.
Cromwell gets into his car outside launch control and drives away. Remember, we last saw Seven by this car.
Scene: Transporter room.
Scott said: There's an old-style weather satellite in orbit below us. If I could bounce off it, I could get some good views. I've got it.
An image of the rocket is on the wall monitor.
Scott said: I could get even closer. If I could spot him, I could lock on and beam him up.
Spock said: Chances are he's out of sight inside the rocket gantry or at one of the control centres.
Kirk said: Launch is in forty minutes. Stand by to beam us down. Continue visual scan.
Scene: McKinley Rocket Base.
Tannoy said: Attention. Stand by for launch area clearance. Range safety verified. Launch director now en route to rocket gantry to confirm launch pad clear. Ground stations three, four and eleven, stand by for confirmation. Repeat. Standby for launch area clearance.
Cromwell and a couple of military men arrive in their cars at the base of the rocket.
Cromwell said: Hi, Jack.
Nesvig said: Mister Cromwell.
Cromwell said: Launch director at gantry, beginning final check.
Tannoy said: Attention. It is now thirty five minutes to launch. T minus thirty five minutes and counting.
Cromwell's car boot opens, and Seven and Isis get out.
Tannoy said: Canary Islands confirming they are go for the launch. All ground stations confirm go.
The three officials return to their cars.
Nesvig said: Lock the elevator at the top, Lieutenant. Time to get out of here.
Tannoy said: Attention. Clear launch pad. Repeat. Clear launch pad and gantry.
The officials drive away. Seven and Isis are in the elevator heading for the top of the rocket.
Scene: Outside Launch Control.
Lipton, the guard that Seven put to sleep, wakes up as Kirk and Spock beam in.
Lipton said: Freeze! One move and you've both had it.
Scene: Launch Control.
Security said: Intruder alert. Intruder alert. Security to launch director. We have unidentified intruders. Males. A pair. Do you want to delay countdown?
Scene: Apartment - main room.
Roberta is talking to the green cube.
Roberta said: All right, don't answer, but you can tell him I quit. You can tell him I promise not to tell anybody anything. He's safe, and you're safe, my little green friend. (the box flashes twice) Same to you.
She sits on the desk and accidentally knocks the 'desk pen' that controls the safe door. Intrigued, she investigates.
Scene: McKinley Rocket Base.
A crowd is gathering a few miles away to watch the launch.
Tannoy said: Attention. Twenty minutes to launch. T minus twenty minutes and counting. All systems continue green. Repeat. All systems still green.
Scene: Rocket Gantry.
Seven is lying along one of the girders supporting the rocket, at a control panel access. Isis is meowing instructions.
Seven said: Yes, thank you. I know how to open it. (with his ubiquitous pen) I know there's not much time.
He starts fiddling with the wiring inside.
Scene: Launch Control.
Two communicators and two phasers are on the launch controllers console. Lipton's boss is doing the interrogation.
Nesvig said: These are all they were carrying.
Tannoy said: T minus fifteen minutes and counting.
Nesvig said: You've got a chance, and I'll offer it only this once. The slightest possible charges will be brought against you if you identify yourselves and tell us why you're here.
Tannoy said: To delay countdown.
Cromwell said: No sign of trouble on my boards. Launch director, confirm status all systems.
Tannoy said: Control to launch director, confirming. Status board indicates all is well. Space flight conditions measure out as planned.;
Cromwell said: Continue countdown.
Tannoy said: No countdown delay. Repeat, no delay. All systems are green and go. All systems are go.
Scene: Rocket Gantry.
Tannoy said: T minus fourteen and counting.
Seven said: Meow? You are nervous, aren't you, doll? All right. I'm going as fast as I can.
Scene: Launch Control.
Tannoy said: T minus thirteen minutes and counting. Status board looks good. Stages look good. All systems go. Status board says go.
Scene: Transporter room.
Scott is continuing his visual search for Seven, and finally spots him at the top of the rocket.
Scott said: Security, send two men up here right away.
Scene: Launch Control.
Tannoy said: T minus eight minutes and counting. All systems go. Status board go.
Scene: Apartment - main room.
Roberta's fiddling with the safe door finally makes it open.
Roberta said: No!
Scene: Transporter room.
Scott said: Stand by. I'm going to beam him up.
On the gantry, Seven feels the transporter effect and sits up, holding Isis. In the apartment, Roberta fiddles with knobs on the inside of the safe door and pulls him away from the Enterprise.
Scott said: I had him and something yanked him away.
Scene: Apartment - main room.
Seven gets up from the floor of the safe.
Seven said: What are you doing? I wasn't finished.
Roberta said: I'm sorry. I just touched that button right there and then wow!
Seven said: You must have intercepted the Enterprise trying to beam me on board. Computer on.
The bookcase opens up.
Seven said: Lock into launch site scan.
Computer said: One minute to launch.
Roberta said: Oh, my gosh!
Captain's log, supplemental. Spock and I in custody. Even if we talked, they wouldn't believe us. We're powerless to stop Mister Seven or prevent the launch, or even be certain if we should. I have never felt so helpless.
Scene: Apartment - main room.
Computer said: Thirty seconds to launch.
Roberta said: Look, hey, I mean, not even the CIA could do all this.
Scene: Launch Control.
Tannoy said: T minus twenty seconds. Mark. Stages reporting ready for launch. Automatic sequences on. She's completely automatic now.
Scene: Apartment - main room.
Computer said: Fifteen seconds to launch. Ten seconds.
Scene: Launch Control.
Tannoy said: Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Ignition. We have ignition.
NASA footage of the powerful rocket lifting off and being tracked by radio telescopes.
Tannoy said: Altitude one thousand feet. All good. All as planned. Trajectory nominal.
Scene: Apartment - main room.
Computer said: Rocket passing twenty mile arc and accelerating.
Seven said: Computer, adjustments at the rocket base were not completed. Can I still take over the rocket as planned?
Computer said: Rocket control possible with exceiver circuits operated manually.
Seven said: Exceiver on manual. Lock into flight telemetry. Visual off.
Roberta backs away and picks up the telephone. Isis meows a warning and Seven uses his pen to sever the cord.
Seven said: Roberta, please don't try to leave. You'll find all the doors locked. Are you jealous, Isis? It's most unbecoming.
Computer said: Rocket altitude now one hundred miles. Standing by to begin malfunction as planned.
Seven said: Begin malfunction at third stage.
Computer said: Exceiver setting now nine zero point zero eight.
Seven said: Nine zero point zero eight.
Computer said: Second stage ready to detach.
Seven said: Visual on.
Computer said: Second stage detaching.
The famous shot of a rocket stage falling away back to Earth.
Computer said: Third stage igniting.
Seven said: Begin malfunction. Take it off course.
Computer said: Malfunction setting correct. Rocket veering from planned course.
Scene: Launch Control.
Cromwell said: Give me the readings fast.
Nesvig said: What is it?
Cromwell said: Malfunction. Rocket is deviating from programmed flight path.
Tannoy said: Safety, standby to destruct. Continuing deviation from flight path. Repeat, deviation confirmed and increasing. Telemetry control transmitter systems tie in. All systems tie in. Report.
Scene: Apartment - main room.
Seven said: Arm the warhead.
Computer said: Accomplished. Nuclear warhead now armed. Set exceiver nine one point two one eight.
Roberta picks up a cigar box.
Seven said: Exceiver nine one point two one eight.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura is scanning broadcasts in different languages.
Scott said: Scott here.
Chekov said: Sensor shows that the rocket has armed itself, Mister Scott.
Sulu said: Computers indicate an impact somewhere in the heart of the Euro-Asian continent.
Chekov said: We've still time to enter close orbit and destroy it with our phaser, sir.
Uhura said: They're beginning to worry on Earth, Mister Scott.
Scene: Transporter room.
Uhura said: I'm getting military alerts from the major powers.
Scott said: I've got to risk calling the captain. Lieutenant Uhura, open a channel.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Aye, aye.
Scene: Launch Control.
Tannoy said: Warhead status confirmed. She's armed herself somehow. Repeat. This bird is armed. The warhead's alive. All boards report status. Stand by on destruct. Standby to transmit destruct signal.
Nesvig said: How could the warhead arm itself?
Cromwell said: We don't know.
Nesvig said: You can destroy it, of course.
Cromwell said: If we can't, we're going to lay an H bomb on somebody somewhere. Ready on destruct signal. Destruct.
Tannoy said: Transmit destruct signal. Transmit destruct signal.
Kirk picks up a communicator, but Lipton hears the chirp as he opens it.
Lipton said: Get back over there.
Scene: Apartment - main room.
Roberta hits Seven over the head with the cigar box.
Roberta said: Look, I'm sorry, but like you asked me, I do care about my country, and you can't be CIA.
She takes his pen from his pocket.
Computer said: Orbital platform separating.
Roberta said: Hold it!
Seven said: Computer, rocket status.
Roberta said: Hold it, Mister Seven. I'm telling you, you're through monkeying around with my country's rocket.
Computer said: Warhead still armed. Six minutes to impact.
Roberta said: Hold it! Don't move! You did enough already!
Seven said: You've got to let me finish what I started, or in six minutes World War Three begins.
Computer said: Flight path continuing on target.
Scene: Launch Control.
Tannoy said: Destruct is fouled up somehow, flight control. She's coming down fully armed. She'll go off on impact.
Cromwell said: What? Try again! Boost the signal!
Tannoy said: Boosting signal. Boosting signal. Flight control, we have boosted destruct signal. Repeat. Destruct signal at maximum boost.
Scott said: (over the open communicator) Captain, can you read me? I was beaming up Mister Seven, and something yanked him away from me.
Lipton said: Hello? Hello, come in.
Spock said: Here, let me help you, Sergeant. It's operated with this dial here.
Neck pinches Lipton and Kirk gets to the communicator.
Tannoy said: We're getting no response.
Cromwell said: Make absolutely certain. Check everything again.
Tannoy said: Tracking stations report no response on destruct signal.
Kirk said: Scotty, beam us directly to Seven's apartment.
Tannoy said: Auxiliary transmitters check out flight control. She hasn't destructed herself. Repeat. Destruct is not working. She's still up there. Do you read? Descending and armed. Descending and armed. She'll go off on impact. Bermuda ground station reports she's still up there. South Africa ground station reports no response on boosted destruct signal.
Cromwell said: (picks up the red telephone) Get me the president.
Scene: Apartment - main room.
Computer said: Rocket descending and accelerating. Do you have further instructions, one nine four?
Seven said: Roberta, you've got to believe me. Look, a truly advanced planet wouldn't use force. They wouldn't come here in strange alien forms. The best of all possible methods would be to take human beings to their world, train them for generations until they're needed here.
Roberta said: Mister Seven, I want to believe you. I do. I know this world needs help. That's why some of my generation are kind of crazy and rebels, you know. We wonder if we're going to be alive when we're thirty.
Computer said: Two minutes to impact.
Kirk said: Hold it right there, Mister Seven.
Roberta said: Oh, no.
Kirk said: Spock, you're the expert. Can you detonate the warhead from this computer?
Spock said: I can try, Captain.
Computer said: Altitude five hundred fifty miles.
Seven said: Captain, I want that warhead detonated, too. Unless I do it at least a hundred miles above ground, just barely in time to frighten them out of this arms race
Scott said: Captain, monitors show all major powers on full missile alert. Retaliatory strike ordered on warhead impact.
Computer said: Altitude four hundred and fifty miles.
Kirk said: Spock.
Spock said: I can estimate some of this, Captain, but without more time
Seven said: Captain, he can only guess. Will you please let me do my job.
Kirk said: I don't know what your job is! You may set those controls so we can't detonate that warhead.
Roberta said: (pointing the pen at Kirk) Listen you, get away from him.
Seven said: (grabbing the pen from her) Roberta, be careful. The servo is set to kill.
He hands the pen to Kirk.
Computer said: Altitude four hundred miles.
Seven said: There are only seconds. I'll need time to set it.
Roberta said: Please. He's telling the truth.
Computer said: Fifty five seconds to impact.
Kirk said: Spock, if you can't handle it, I'm going to have to trust him.
Spock said: It is difficult to know which is best, Captain.
Computer said: Forty seconds to impact.
Spock said: Without facts, the decision cannot be made logically. You must rely on your human intuition.
Computer said: Altitude three hundred miles. Descending and accelerating.
Kirk said: Go.
Computer said: Thirty seconds and accelerating.
Seven said: Computer, go to visual. Count by tens.
Computer said: One hundred ninety miles. One hundred eighty miles. One hundred seventy miles. One hundred sixty miles. One hundred fifty, one hundred forty, one hundred thirty, one hundred twenty. (there's a bright flash) Detonation one hundred four miles.
Big sighs of relief all round.
Later, Gary Seven is dictating his report to the special typewriter. Kirk and Spock are back in uniform.
Seven said: And in spite of the accidental interference with history by the Earth ship from the future, the mission was completed.
Spock said: Correction, Mister Seven. It appears we did not interfere. The Enterprise was part of what was supposed to happen on this day in 1968.
Suddenly Isis has transformed from a black cat to a dark haired woman in a black outfit.
Kirk said: Our record tapes show, although not generally revealed, that on this date, a malfunctioning suborbital warhead was exploded exactly one hundred and four miles above the Earth.
Seven said: So everything happened the way it was supposed to.
Spock said: And you'll be pleased our records show that it resulted in a new and stronger international agreement against the use of such weapons.
Roberta said: Would you mind telling me who that is?
Seven said: That, Miss Lincoln, is simply my cat.
Roberta said: Your cat?
She's a cat again, who decides to scratch behind her own ear.
Seven said: What else do your record tapes show?
Kirk said: I'm afraid we can't reveal everything we know, Mister Seven.
Spock said: Captain, we could say that Mister Seven and Miss Lincoln have some interesting experiences in store for them.
Kirk said: Yes, I think we could say that. Two to beam up, Scotty.
Spock said: Live long and prosper, Mister Seven.
Kirk said: And the same to you, Miss Lincoln. Energise.