Spectre Of The Gun
Stardate: 4385.3
Original Airdate: 25 Oct, 1968
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: On mark eight and closing.
Kirk said: Steady as she goes. Phaser crew, stand by.
There's a strange object on the viewscreen.
Chekov said: Range, forty five thousand kilometres, Captain.
Spock said: Fascinating.
Chekov said: Range, forty three thousand kilometres and closing.
Kirk said: Sensor readings?
Spock said: A mechanical device of unknown properties. I read no life forms aboard.
Kirk said: Analysis, Science Officer?
Spock said: Obviously, it intends to intercept us. It has made several course changes corresponding with our own.
Chekov said: Thirty eight thousand and closing. Thirty five thousand and closing.
Spock said: Unclear whether it intends to attack or merely communicate with us.
Kirk said: Thank you, Science Officer. Come to one eight one mark seven.
Chekov said: Aye, aye, sir.
The object swings back into the centre of the viewscreen.
Kirk said: It's staying with us.
Spock said: Indeed.
Kirk said: Full stop, Mister Chekov. Hold your position.
Chekov said: Aye, sir.
Melkot said: Aliens, you have encroached on the space of the Melkot. You will turn back immediately. This is the only warning you will receive.
Spock said: Vulcan, Captain.
Kirk said: English.
Chekov said: It was Russian, sir. Every word.
Uhura said: No, Captain. It was Swahili.
Kirk said: Interesting. Telepathy.
Spock said: Unquestionably. Most impressive.
Kirk said: Our orders are very clear. We're to establish contact with the Melkotians at all costs.
Spock said: True telepaths can be most formidable, and we have been warned.
Kirk said: What previous contacts have been made with the Melkotians?
Spock said: No recorded contacts. If they ever ventured into space, they evidently withdrew immediately.
Kirk said: Lieutenant, hailing frequencies.
Uhura said: Tied in, sir.
Kirk said: This is Captain James T. Kirk of the starship Enterprise, representing the United Federation of Planets. We've contacted your buoy and understand its message. We hope that you will understand that our intent is to establish peaceful relations with you. Lieutenant, answer?
Uhura said: Nothing, sir. Clear on all frequencies.
Kirk said: Try again.
Uhura said: Still no response, sir.
Kirk said: Opinion, Mister Spock?
Spock said: I prefer being a welcomed guest, Captain, but there seems to be little choice.
Kirk said: None whatsoever. Mister Chekov, deflectors at full intensity. Increase speed to achieve planet fall as scheduled.
Chekov said: Aye, sir. Standard orbit in five minutes.
The buoy does not obstruct them.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura, advise Doctor McCoy and Engineer Scott to meet me in the transporter room. Mister Spock, Mister Chekov, let's go find out what it is they're afraid of.
Captain's Log, stardate 4385.3. We have transported down to the Melkotian planet and have encountered conditions which are completely contrary to what we were prepared for.
Scene: Planet surface.
The landing party are surrounded by dense fog.
Kirk said: Spock, what is this?
Spock said: Unknown, Captain. Sensor readings give no indication of fog like conditions in this area.
Mccoy said: I knew it had to happen. It's a fine time for that transporter mechanism to break down.
Scott said: Impossible, Doctor McCoy. My transporter was working perfectly.
Chekov said: Then what are we doing here?
Kirk said: Tricorder readings, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Unknown, Captain. Unlike Mister Scott's transporter, this unit is not functioning.
Kirk said: Then let's get out of here. Kirk to Enterprise. Kirk to Enterprise. Come in.
Spock said: No use, Captain. Obviously none of our devices will function. Apparently that Melkotian buoy
Melkot said: (a pair of red eyes in the fog) Aliens. Our warning was plain. You have disregarded it. You shall be punished. You, Captain Kirk, the disobedience was on your orders. Yours is the responsibility. Yours shall be the pattern of your death.
Kirk said: We come in peace, but we'll defend ourselves if necessary.
Melkot said: You are outside. You are disease. The disease must be destroyed. Your plea has been heard, and sentence has been pronounced. It is done.
Scene: Street.
And suddenly they are standing in a Wild West street, with six-shooters and holsters instead of phasers.
Spock said: Fascinating.
Chekov said: Where are we now, Captain?
The sheriff's office is just the front of the building, no sides, back or roof.
Kirk said: Spock, evaluation?
Spock said: Obviously this represents the Melkotian's concept of an American frontier town, circa 1880.
Mccoy said: It's just bits and pieces. It's incomplete.
Spock said: Perhaps the Melkotians have insufficient data about this era.
Kirk said: Or perhaps this is all they require to complete the pattern of our death.
Scott said: And these, Captain? (the guns)
Kirk said: Beautiful specimen.
Spock said: Crude but dangerous.
Kirk said: Whatever the Melkotians have planned for us, it won't be pleasant. These could be useful. Just remember one thing. To individuals at close range, these could be as deadly as phasers.
Mccoy said: In the midst of what seems so unreal, the harsh reality. This is not a dream.
Kirk said: (reading from a newspaper pinned up) October 26, 1881. Tombstone, Arizona.
Mccoy said: Tombstone. Hell for leather, right out of history.
Kirk said: But why here? And why now?
Spock said: Captain, the Melkot said you were the pattern. He looked into your mind and selected what he considered the proper time and place for our punishment.
Kirk said: Because my ancestors pioneered the American frontier.
Spock said: Yes. The violence of your own heritage is to be the pattern for our execution.
Mccoy said: What's the matter with us? We're talking like we really are in Tombstone, Arizona in 1881.
Spock said: Precisely, in terms of what the Melkots intend for us.
Kirk said: There's something about that date, October 26, 1881 But what was it?
The sheriff comes over, grinning.
Behan said: Ike! Ike! Frank! Billy! Tom! (shakes Kirk's hand) Ike, I was afraid you weren't going to make it.
Kirk said: Looks like we did.
Behan said: I knew you wouldn't let them scare you away. They're a bunch of hot air if you ask me.
Spock said: Are they really?
Behan said: Now they're going to have to fight after the way they shot off their mouths.
Kirk said: You know us?
Behan said: Funny. That's what I like about you, lke. You always see the funny side.
Kirk said: I'm a barrel of laughs.
Behan said: Nobody can say Johnny Behan doesn't have a sense of humour. (walks on)
Kirk said: Johnny? He called me lke, you Frank, Bones Tom, and Billy. Ike Clanton, Tom and Frank McLowery, Billy Claiborne, Billy Clanton.
Spock said: Captain, I pride myself on my knowledge of your Earth history. The names were known in the annals of the opening of the western sector of America. the United States of America, that is.
Kirk said: In the late nineteenth century in Arizona, two factions fought for control of the town of Tombstone. The Earps, Morgan, Virgil and Wyatt, who were the town marshals, along with Doc Holliday.
Spock said: And the Clanton gang. On October 26th, they had it out.
Chekov said: Who won?
Kirk said: The Clantons lost, Mister Chekov.
Chekov said: And we are the Clantons?
Kirk said: We are the Clantons. And if this is a replay of history
Spock said: History cannot be changed.
There's a brawl in the saloon and a window is broken. A man in black wearing a badge shoots another man. The group run over.
Scott said: It's impossible! Things like this can't happen.
Spock said: Is this a dead man, Doctor?
Mccoy said: Very dead, Mister Spock.
Kirk said: That's one thing we can be sure of. Death is real.
Scene: Saloon.
Tables, chairs, bar, pianola, no roof or walls.
Barman said: Ike, Frank, hiya, boys. I didn't think I'd see you again.
Sylvia said: Billy! Oh, Billy! (kisses Chekov) Billy, baby, I knew they couldn't keep you out of town.
Chekov said: Oh, you knew that?
Sylvia said: Come on.
She takes him to a table while the man in black walks slowly past the group.
Sylvia said: Maybe you shouldn't have.
Chekov said: And pass up an opportunity to see you? Don't be silly.
Sylvia said: It's taking crazy chances with Morgan Earp right in the same room.
The man in black.
Kirk said: Yes, of course. The man who kills on sight. Morgan Earp.
Spock said: Captain, since we have seen that death is the one reality in this situation, I seriously suggest you reseat yourself immediately. Without moving a muscle of either hand. If I remember correctly, that would involve you in what was called the fast draw. It initiated unfortunate events.
Everyone sits. Slowly.
Barman said: You boys want your usual?
Scott said: Absolutely. Half a gallon of scotch.
Barman said: You know we ain't got nothing but bourbon, unless you want corn whiskey.
Sylvia said: I wish it was all over. I saw Virgil out patrolling this morning.
Kirk said: Good old Virgil. We can always count on him.
Sylvia said: They've been blowing off all over town about how they chased the Clantons out. I guess you'll show them now, won't you?
Morgan walks over to Sylvia, who is massaging Chekov's shoulders.
Kirk said: I don't think we're going to have any choice.
Morgan said: You'll dirty yourself with this scum. Come on.
Chekov said: Get your hands off her.
Morgan said: Now, Claiborne.
Kirk said: No, no, no. All right, all right, all right. We don't want any trouble.
Morgan said: If you don't want any trouble, what are you doing in my town?
Kirk said: Just leave us alone, Mister Earp. That's all we ask.
Morgan said: Five of you. You'd like me to draw, wouldn't you? All right, I will. Soon enough. Soon enough.
Morgan Earp leaves.
Spock said: I believe he was actually trying to provoke a dispute with Mister Chekov.
Barman said: (bringing a bottle and glasses.) Close, Ike. Lucky there wasn't two of them.
Kirk said: I guess so.
Barman said: Sylvia's right. They've been bad-mouthing something fierce all over town. You boys watch it.
Spock said: I assure you, sir, we shall watch it, and everything, extremely closely.
Sylvia said: Billy, you were wonderful. (she kisses him)
Kirk said: Er, Mister Chekov?
Chekov said: What can I do, Captain? You know we're always supposed to maintain good relations with the natives. (he kisses her)
Kirk said: Young lady. Young lady.
Sylvia said: Yes, Ike?
Kirk said: I'd like to talk to Mister, to Billy alone, if you don't mind.
Sylvia said: All right. I understand. Billy Claiborne, you be careful.
Sylvia leaves them.
Kirk said: Mister Chekov, you be careful. Mister Spock, except for our hand guns, we haven't changed, not even our clothing, yet these people see and hear us as the Clantons.
Chekov said: I don't think that's such a bad thing, Captain.
Spock said: The day is still young, Ensign.
Kirk said: All right, what have we got? We're here in Tombstone, Arizona, October 26, 1881. The day of the gunfight at OK Corral. And we're the Clantons, and Morgan Earp has just gone to tell his brothers we're here.
Spock said: And if this is indeed some sort of replay of history, the Earps will kill the Clantons at the OK Corral at five o'clock this afternoon.
Kirk said: Well, we're not going to be at the OK Corral at five o'clock this afternoon. You, bartender. Ed. You, er, you claim you know us.
Barman said: I ain't making no big claims about you to nobody. Just so happens.
Kirk said: Take a close look at me.
Barman said: Yeah?
Kirk said: Who do you think I am?
Barman said: Ike Clanton. Who do you think you are?
Kirk said: I know this is hard to understand, but I'm Captain James T. Kirk of the spaceship Enterprise. These men are part of my crew. We're not really here, we're from the future. We haven't been born yet. Feel the material in my shirt. Now feel the material in your own shirt. Do you notice any difference?
Barman said: No.
Kirk said: Do these clothes look like yours?
Barman said: Not exactly.
Kirk said: Have you seen clothes like this before?
Barman said: Sure.
Kirk said: Where?
Barman said: On the Clantons. You Clantons are always great with your jokes. That's why we like you.
Kirk said: I'm not joking.
Barman said: The only difference between you and the Earps is that they never joke.
Kirk said: I'm not joking! I'm not Ike Clanton!
Barman said: It's okay with me, Ike. Anything you say. Don't make no difference who I think you are. Your problem is, who does Wyatt Earp think you are?
Scene: Marshall's office.
The Marshall is Wyatt Earp, and Morgan is also there when Kirk walks in.
Kirk said: Good morning, gentlemen. My name's James Kirk. I'm afraid there's been some sort of misunderstanding.
Wyatt said: Clanton, I don't know what you're trying to pull, but we warned you not to show your ugly face in town again.
Kirk said: Yes, of course you did, and I wanted to talk to you about that.
Morgan said: We're done talking, Clanton.
Kirk said: There's been some sort of mistake, a misunderstanding.
Wyatt said: All right, Clanton. One more chance. Your last. You've got until five tonight to get your horse-stealing scurvy crew out of town. All the way.
Kirk said: Yes. We'd be glad to. We don't want to fight.
Morgan said: I always said you was yellow, Clanton.
Kirk said: I'll make one more attempt to get through to you, Mister Earp. My name is not Clanton, it's Kirk.
Morgan said: Oh, yeah. We heard the talk about your jokes.
Kirk said: I'm not joking.
Morgan said: Sure. Well, I'm glad to meet you Mister Kirk.
Morgan punches Kirk and they fight briefly. Kirk gets Morgan in front of him as a shield from Wyatt's gun then lets him go.
Wyatt said: Draw, Clanton.
Kirk said: Not me, Mister Earp.
Wyatt said: You draw or I will.
Morgan said: No, Wyatt. Let me. When the time comes, I'll pay him for this.
Kirk said: We don't want any trouble. We'll be glad to co-operate.
Wyatt said: Five o'clock, Clanton. Is that clear? If you're in town at five oh one, we'll kill every one of you whether you draw or not. Is that clear?
Scene: Saloon.
McCoy is tending to Kirk's lip. He flinches from whatever McCoy has put on the cloth.
Mccoy said: What's the matter?
Kirk said: What do you call that stuff? Fire?
Mccoy said: Taos Lightning straight bourbon. Try some. In small amounts, it was considered medicinal.
Kirk said: Label it for external use Only.
Scott said: It just takes a bit of getting used to, Captain. Actually, a man could grow quite fond of this stuff.
Mccoy said: Take it easy, Mister Scott. I hate to think what that stuff's doing to your stomach lining.
Kirk said: And your reflexes. We're going to need fast reflexes from now on. There's no negotiating with the Earps. We know that.
Scott said: Aye. If we only had a phaser.
Mccoy said: Or a communicator. It'd be a pleasure to watch those Earps as we beamed back to the ship at exactly four fifty nine thirty.
Kirk said: Could we make a communicator?
Spock said: Impossible, Captain. In this century, there are no metal alloys or power sources to make devices such as ours.
Kirk said: The problem is clear, Spock. We're going to have to seek contemporary solutions. Where's Chekov?
Spock said: Mister Chekov is involved, Captain.
Sylvia said: You shouldn't have come back to town, Billy. Morgan'll kill you because he wants me.
Chekov said: With his outdated weapon? If he shoots at me, I will just step out of the way.
Sylvia said: You can joke about it. I've seen them in action. Especially Morgan.
Chekov said: A lot of people and things have tried to kill me. You'd be surprised.
Kirk said: Mister Chekov, I mean Billy. Come along.
Chekov said: Yes, sir.
Sylvia said: Billy? Please, don't even go near him.
Kirk said: Gentlemen.
Scene: Street.
Chekov said: Where are we going, Captain?
Kirk said: To exercise the better part of valour.
But when they get to the City Limits notice, they are stopped with a sizzle.
Kirk said: Well, that settles that. A force field.
Then a clock face in mid-air strikes three.
Spock said: It is obvious the Melkotians are not going to permit us to leave this town.
Scott said: If we could only contact the Enterprise.
Chekov said: Yes, but where is the Enterprise?
Kirk said: Mister Chekov. If you were in charge of the Enterprise, what would you be doing?
Chekov said: I'd be using the ship's sensors trying to locate us.
Kirk said: Very good. If we could find the place where we beamed down, the ship might lock in and beam us up.
Mccoy said: Well let's get there.
Spock said: There's no way we can know where it is, Doctor.
Kirk said: It could be anywhere within a thousand mile radius.
Mccoy said: Mister Spock, why don't you join us common humanoids in trying to find a way out of here, and quit explaining why we can't get out of here.
Kirk said: We have until five o'clock to find that way. Now consider this. What materials were on hand in 1881 that could help us fight the Earps on their own terms?
Scott said: (showing his gun) We have these, Captain.
Kirk said: No, the Melkots gave us those to execute us. We have to find a way to put the Earps out of action. Is there anything that exists here and now that could help us out of this trap?
Chekov said: All those western Cossacks had were poisonous snakes and cactus plants.
Kirk said: Bones, the venom, the plants. Can you make use of them?
Mccoy said: A tranquilliser. Of course, Jim. I can make a tranquilliser!
Spock said: I could make a device to deliver it on target.
Kirk said: First, Bones, the ingredients you require.
Mccoy said: I know the place to get the proper drugs. I'll need a mortar and a pestle.
Kirk said: Chekov, mortar and pestle.
McCoy and Chekov leave.
Kirk said: How do you intend to deliver the tranquilliser on target?
Spock said: I shall need some fusing and cotton wadding.
Kirk said: Cotton wadding. Try the apothecary.
Scott said: Aye. (leaves)
Spock said: I shall manufacture the equivalent of an ancient generating canister, more familiarly known as a gas grenade.
Scene: Barber/Dentist's office.
The sign on the wall says Teeth Pulling By Appointment. There's a man in the chair having a shave.
Barber said: I'll be about five minutes yet. You could come back.
Mccoy said: Well, thank you. Mind if I look around a bit? (checking the bottles) Crude, but very useable.
Barber said: I wouldn't touch that stuff if I was you.
Mccoy said: Oh, you don't have to worry. I know how to handle this. I have an urgent need for a small supply of this drug, too.
Barber said: That stuff ain't mine. It belongs to him. You'd better ask him.
Mccoy said: Oh, so you're the dentist. Well, I'm a physician, and I have a serious emergency. I wonder if you mind if I borrow a small quantity of this.
Holliday said: You want it now?
Mccoy said: My name is McCoy. I'm a doctor.
Holliday said: That joke is all around town already, McLowery. But my name is still Holliday. Doc Holliday.
Mccoy said: The emergency is real. I need these things.
Holliday said: Your emergency sure is real. Go on, take the stuff. Have some more fun. Take my bag. Only best you be finished before five o'clock.
Mccoy said: That is my intention, Doctor.
Holliday said: Because at one minute past five, you'll find a hole in your head. Right from this gun.
A sawn-off shotgun. McCoy leaves with the bag and bottles.
Scene: Outside the General Store.
Sylvia said: Ahem.;
Chekov said: Sylvia! Hello.
Sylvia said: Billy Claiborne, you know how crazy I am about you.
Chekov said: That's very nice.
Sylvia said: Well, aren't you going to ask me what I've got in my shopping bag?
Chekov said: That's just what I was preparing to inquire. Have you been shopping?
Sylvia said: Of course, silly! What else would I be doing on a beautiful afternoon with the dance only one week away? Or have you forgotten that already?
Chekov said: No, no, I haven't forgotten. I am looking forward to it most eagerly.
Sylvia said: You will be absolutely wild when you see me in the new gown I'm going to make. I found this most scrumptious material, yards and yards of it. You know what I was thinking, Billy? I was thinking what a beautiful wedding gown it would make. Why don't we just turn that dance into a wedding ball? It would be so heavenly.
Chekov said: Married? I'm afraid that wouldn't be possible.
Sylvia said: But I'm positive the gown will be ready. What else is there to stop a wedding?
Chekov said: But it is absolutely impossible. I am not someone you can marry. If only I could make clear to you what I really am.
Sylvia said: Do you think I don't know? Billy Claiborne, you are a cattle rustler and a horse thief and I don't care what else.
Morgan said: I warned you, Claiborne. Stay away.
Morgan punches Chekov, knocking him down.
Morgan said: You don't have to take anything from that scum, not while I'm here.
Chekov said: Mister Earp. Get your hands off her.
Chekov walks towards Morgan, and gets shot. Kirk and Spock hear Sylvia's scream and arrive on the scene the same time as McCoy, followed by Scott. Wyatt and Holliday also turn up.
Mccoy said: There's nothing I can do, Jim.
Wyatt said: Come on, Clanton. Let's do it now.
Scott said: Captain, let me.
Kirk said: No.
Holliday said: Yeah, come on, Captain. Let him.
Scott said: Captain, we can't just stand here and take it.
Kirk said: Yes, we can.
Scott said: But they murdered Chekov! If you think I'm going to
Kirk said: Scotty, they're trying to push us into something we're not ready for.
Spock said: And it is not yet our time.
Scene: Saloon.
Spock is working on the grenade, McCoy and Scott on the tranquilliser.
Mccoy said: Let it go, Jim. He's dead.
Kirk said: Maybe he wouldn't be if I hadn't ignored the Melkot warning.
Mccoy said: We all knew the risk when we joined the service. Now let it go.
Spock said: Gentlemen, there is one thing which requires the immediate attention of all of us. Specifically, our future.
Kirk said: But not this minute, Spock. It takes us a little longer.
Spock said: I understand the feeling, Captain.
Mccoy said: You talk about another man's feelings. What do you feel, Spock?
Spock said: My feelings are not a subject for discussion, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Because there are no feelings to discuss.
Scott said: Mister Spock, Chekov is dead! I say it now, and I can hardly believe it. But you worked closely with him. That deserves some memorial.
Mccoy said: Spock will have no truck with grief, Scotty. It's human.
Kirk said: Bones, Scotty.
Spock said: Captain, it's quite all right. They forget I am half human.
The clock strikes four.
Mccoy said: We don't have much time.
Spock said: Captain. I vaguely remember the historical account of the famous battle in which we are about to engage, but I am confused.
Kirk said: About what?
Spock said: Since each of us represents members of the Clanton gang. You, Ike Clanton, I, Frank McLowery, then Mister Chekov would be the other Billy, would he not?
Kirk said: William Claiborne, that's right.
Spock said: But did not William Claiborne survive the battle at the OK Corral?
Mccoy said: Get to the point, Spock.
Spock said: Mister Chekov is dead. But in the actual gunfight, William Claiborne survived.
Kirk said: Yes. Yes, that's right. That means it doesn't have to happen the way it happened. We can change it. Bones, how's the tranquilliser coming?
Mccoy said: I'll have it ready before Spock.
Kirk said: Spock?
Spock said: Another hour.
Kirk said: And we'll have a tranquilliser grenade?
Spock said: Not precisely.
Kirk said: Forget precision. Will it work?
Spock said: It should.
Kirk said: Make sure it does, Spock. If we don't tranquillise them, we'll have to fight them.
Mccoy said: And if we fight them, we all die. We know that.
Spock said: Negotiating with them could buy us more time, Captain.
Kirk said: But not with the Earps. I've tried that. That's out. There must be a way. History has been changed in the fact that Billy Claiborne didn't die, but Chekov is lying there dead. That means there must be a way to change this history.
Spock said: It would be worth a try, at least until we're certain of the device. Then perhaps we could quiet things down.
Kirk said: Not with the Earps. There is one other place I can try.
Scene: Outside the Sheriff's office.
Behan said: You looking for somebody?
Kirk said: Yes, Sheriff. I want you to stop the fight.
Behan said: Stop it? Who wants to stop it? I sure don't. You don't. You didn't yesterday.
Kirk said: I do now.
Behan said: Since when does a Clanton run crawling to the law for help?
Kirk said: How else is he going to get justice?
Behan said: (indicating gun) From this. You and your boys set up this whole thing to take care of the Earps. It's a little late to decide you don't have the belly for it.
Kirk said: It's not too late. Sheriff. Sheriff. There must be plenty of decent people in town who don't like the Earps. Let's organise them.
Behan said: Don't talk nonsense. The people in this town are counting on you to get rid of the Earps for them.
Kirk said: Then the people had better wake up and let the law work for them.
Behan said: You can talk that way after what the Earps did to Billy today? Nobody in this town will deny you your right to your revenge.
Kirk said: Yes, I want revenge. I want to crush the life out of the Earps. But I can't just kill them.
Behan said: You listen to me. Get down to the OK Corral. Keep out of sight. When the Earps come looking, you bushwhack them.
Kirk said: Can't I get it through your stupid head? I can't just kill them! I can't murder them!
Behan said: It's the only way.
Kirk said: I can't kill them! I can't kill them!
Behan said: Kill them any way you can! There'll be no questions asked. Honest. I guarantee that!
Scene: Saloon.
Spock said: These crude supplies we were forced to use worked quite well.
Mccoy said: I doubt that this combination of things was ever used for any purpose quite like this.
Spock said: Perhaps they would've been if they'd had your ingenuity, Doctor.
Kirk enters.
Spock said: Captain?
Kirk said: How soon will that be ready?
Spock said: Right now.
Kirk said: Good. How long will it take the tranquilliser to have effect?
Mccoy said: Three or four seconds.
Kirk said: How did you manage to test it?
Spock said: It has not been tested.
Mccoy said: It's not necessary, Captain. It's very simple. Nothing can go wrong.
Kirk said: Up to now, everything has gone wrong. I want it tested now.
Scott said: Would a volunteer solve the problem?
Mccoy said: It would.
Scott said: All right. On one condition. That I'm wide awake and with you at five o'clock.
Mccoy said: Guaranteed.
Scott said: Aye. (has a slug of whiskey) It's to kill the pain.
Spock said: But this is painless.
Scott said: Well, you should've warned me sooner, Mister Spock. Fire away.
Spock pulls the thread on the can, and gas comes out. Scott stands close to it. Then he picks it up so the gas obscures his face.
Mccoy said: It should have worked. Did you inhale the gas, Scotty?
Scott said: Aye. Deeply.
Mccoy said: You still feel all right?
Scott said: I never felt better.
Mccoy said: No dizziness? No sweating? No palpitations?
Kirk said: It doesn't work.
Spock said: Fascinating.
Kirk said: It was our last chance.
Spock said: Captain, you don't seem to understand. It did not function, but it must function.
Mccoy said: Nothing could go wrong, Captain. It should work.
Spock said: A scientific fact But if the tranquilliser does not function, which is clearly impossible, then a radical alteration of our thought patterns must be in order.
Kirk said: We need a weapon. An answer.
Mccoy said: You don't have to worry about that now, Jim. Look at the clock.
Kirk said: Ten minutes and it's all going to end at the OK Corral. Well, we're going to wait right here until well after five o'clock. We're not going to move from this spot.
Scene: OK Corral.
Famous last words, Captain.
Kirk said: Let's get out of here.
But there is a forcefield to stop them.
Kirk said: Scotty, Bones. (and it's all the way around.) We're trapped. They got their way. We've got to stand and fight.
Scott said: Good. If they want a fight, let's gie'em a fight.
Kirk said: They're experts at gunfighting. We don't have a chance.
Mccoy said: Then we'd better become experts, and fast.
Spock said: That may not be necessary.
Kirk said: Spock, you've got something?
Spock said: A fact, Captain. Physical laws simply cannot be ignored. Existence cannot be without them.
Mccoy said: What do you mean, Spock?
Spock said: I mean, Doctor, that we are faced with a staggering contradiction. The tranquilliser you created should have been effective.
Kirk said: It would've been effective anywhere else.
Spock said: Exactly. Doctor, in your opinion, what killed Mister Chekov?
Mccoy said: A piece of lead in his body.
Spock said: Wrong. His mind killed him.
Mccoy said: Come on, Spock. If you've got the answer, tell us.
Spock said: Physical reality is consistent with universal laws. Where the laws do not operate, there is no reality. All of this is unreal.
Mccoy said: What do you mean unreal? I examined Chekov. He's dead.
Spock said: But you made your examination under conditions which we cannot trust. We judge reality by the response of our senses. Once we are convinced of the reality of a given situation, we abide by its rules. We judged the bullets to be solid, the guns to be real, therefore they can kill.
Kirk said: Chekov is dead because he believed the bullets would kill him.
Spock said: He may indeed be dead. We do not know.
Kirk said: But we do know that the Melkotians created the situation. If we do not allow ourselves to believe that the bullets are real, they cannot kill us.
Spock said: Exactly. I know the bullets are unreal, therefore they cannot harm me.
Kirk said: We must all be as certain as you are, Mister Spock, to save our lives.
Spock said: Precisely.
Mccoy said: But that's not possible. There'd always be some doubt.
Spock said: The smallest doubt would be enough to kill you.
Mccoy said: We're just human beings, Spock. We don't have that clockwork ticker in our head like you do. We can't turn it on and off.
Kirk said: We must. Spock, a Vulcan mind meld.
Spock said: Very well, sir. Engineer?
The clock strikes five. Wyatt Earp puts on his gun belt.
Spock said: Your mind to my mind. Your thoughts to my thoughts.
The marshalls gather as the lightning flashes and the wind blows.
Spock said: (to McCoy) The bullets are unreal. Without body. They are illusions only. Shadows without substance. They will not pass through your body, for they do not exist.
Mccoy said: They do not exist.
Holliday joins the Earps.
SPOCK to Kirk Unreal. Appearances only. They are shadows. Illusions. Nothing but ghosts of reality. They are lies. Falsehoods. Spectres without body. They are to be ignored.
The melds have been completed when the four killers arrive at the Corral.
Spock said: Captain.
Wyatt said: Draw.
Kirk reaches for his gun, and the Earps fire. We see the bullets splintering the wood behind the landing party. The Earps empty their guns, then Kirk engages Wyatt in good old-fashioned fisticuffs. He beats him but chooses not to shoot him. Everything disappears.
Scene: Bridge.
McCoy is examining Chekov at his station.
Chekov said: Captain, I don't understand.
Mccoy said: Neither do I. He's in perfect health.
Chekov said: What happened? Where have I been?
Kirk said: Right here, it seems.
Chekov said: But that girl. She was so beautiful. So real.
Kirk said: Do you remember anything else?
Chekov said: No.
Kirk said: Good. Perhaps that explains why he's here. Nothing was real to him except the girl.
Spock said: Captain, the Melkotian object.
Kirk said: Sensor readings.
Spock said: The object is beginning to emit M-rays of a highly unstable nature, Captain.
Kirk said: Lieutenant, sound Red Alert. Mister Chekov, deflector shields on full. Phaser gun crews, lock on target.
Spock said: Energy output increasing beyond measurable levels, Captain.
Kirk said: Phaser guns, stand by to fire.
The Melkotian buoy explodes.
Chekov said: It's, it's gone, sir.
Kirk said: Damage report, Lieutenant.
Uhura said: No damage, sir. All decks report fully operational.
Melkot said: Captain Kirk. You did not kill. Is this the way of your kind?
Kirk said: It is. We fight only when there's no choice. We prefer the ways of peaceful contact. I speak for a vast alliance of fellow creatures who believe in the same thing. We have sought you out to join us. Our mission is still one of peace.
Melkot said: Approach our planet and be welcome. A delegation will come out to meet you. Our warning threats are over.
Kirk said: Excellent. Lieutenant, cancel Red Alert. Mister Chekov, resume original course, warp factor two.
Chekov said: Warp factor two, sir.
Spock said: Captain. May I ask a question? You needn't answer if it seems too personal.
Kirk said: I'm sure I'll be able to give you an answer, Mister Spock.
Spock said: This afternoon, you wanted to kill, didn't you?
Mccoy said: But he didn't kill, Mister Spock.
Spock said: But he wanted to, Doctor.
Kirk said: Is that the way it seemed to you, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Yes, Captain.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, you're absolutely right. That's exactly the way it was.
Spock said: Mankind, ready to kill.
Kirk said: That's the way it was in 1881.
Spock said: I wonder how humanity managed to survive.
Kirk said: We overcame our instinct for violence.