The Paradise Syndrome
Stardate: 4842.6
Original Airdate: 4 Oct, 1968
Scene: Planet surface.
Conifers stand on the slopes down to a lake, where three figures beam down onto a trackway.
Mccoy said: Look at those pine trees.
Kirk said: And that lake.
Mccoy said: I swear that's honeysuckle I smell.
Kirk said: I swear that's a little orange blossom thrown in. It's unbelievable. Growth exactly like that of Earth on a planet half a galaxy away. What are the odds on such duplication?
Spock said: Astronomical, Captain. The relative size, age and composition of this planet makes it highly improbable that it would evolve similarly to Earth in any way.
Mccoy said: What in blazes is that?
A bizarre structure on a dais, with steps leading up to it.
Kirk said: Analysis, Spock.
Spock said: An alien metal of some kind. An alloy resistant to probe. Readings can't even measure its age accurately. These incised symbols are fascinating. Evidently, some form of writing.
Kirk said: Any theories about what it is?
Spock said: Negative, Captain. Structures of this complexity require extremely sophisticated building apparatus, the kind usually found in cultures surpassing or equalling our own.
Mccoy said: Meadows and no meteor craters. The whole place is an enigma, biologically and culturally.
Kirk said: What's the nearest concentration of life forms, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Bearing one one seven mark four.
Kirk said: And how much time did you say we have to investigate?
Spock said: If we are to divert the asteroid which is on a collision course with this planet, we must warp out of orbit within thirty minutes. Every second we delay arriving at the deflection point compounds the problem, perhaps past solution.
Kirk said: You did say thirty minutes?
Spock said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Then let's go. Let's find out what life forms are blessed by this environment.
Standing on the opposite side of the lake from a collection of tipis and a lodge.
Mccoy said: Why, they look like. I'd swear they're American Indians.
Spock said: They are, Doctor. A mixture of Navajo, Mohican, and Delaware, I believe. All among the more advanced and peaceful tribes.
Kirk said: It's like discovering Atlantis or Shangri-la. Mister Spock, is it possible there's a more evolved civilisation somewhere else on this planet, one capable of building that obelisk or developing a deflector system?
Spock said: Highly improbable, Captain. Sensor probes indicate only one type of life form here.
Mccoy said: Shouldn't we contact them, Jim? Tell them?
Kirk said: Tell them what? That an asteroid's coming to smash their world into atoms?
Spock said: Too primitive to grasp the concept of space flight, Doctor. Our appearance here would only confuse and frighten them.
Kirk said: We've got a job to do. Let's get back to the Enterprise.
Along the path.
Mccoy said: What's the matter, Jim?
Kirk said: What? Oh, nothing. It's just so peaceful, uncomplicated. No problems, no command decisions. Just living.
Mccoy said: Typical human reaction to an idyllic natural setting. Back in the twentieth century, we referred to it as the Tahiti Syndrome. It's particularly common to over-pressured leader types, like starship captains.
Kirk said: Ah, the Tahiti Syndrome. Let's go take care of that asteroid. But first I want another look at that obelisk.
Scene: Obelisk.
Kirk walks up to it as McCoy scans with the tricorder.
Spock said: Doctor?
Mccoy said: Yes.
Spock said: I suggest that any further research on your part be delayed until after we have diverted the asteroid.
Kirk said: (standing next to the symbols) Kirk to Enterprise. (and drops suddenly out of our sight)
Chekov said: Yes, sir.
Inside the obelisk chamber, Kirk starts to stand and is hit by and electrical discharge. He collapses across a control panel.
Captain's Log, stardate 4842.6. First Officer Spock commanding. Numerous search parties and repeated sensor probes of the area have failed to locate Captain Kirk.
Scene: Obelisk.
Spock is standing where Kirk was when he disappeared.
Spock said: Spock to Enterprise.
Scott said: Enterprise. Come in, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Prepare to beam us up, Mister Scott. We're warping out of orbit.
Mccoy said: Leaving? You can't be serious, Spock.
Spock said: Doctor, that asteroid is almost as large as your Earth's moon. Far enough away, the angle necessary to divert it enough to avoid destruction is minute, but as the asteroid approaches this planet, the angle becomes so great that even the power of a starship
Mccoy said: The devil with an asteroid! It won't get here for two months, Spock!
Spock said: If we arrive at the deflection point in time, it may not get here at all.
Mccoy said: In the meantime, what about Jim?
Spock said: Once the asteroid has been diverted, we'll return here and resume the search.
Mccoy said: That may be hours from now. He may be injured or dying.
Spock said: (picking up two stoned to illustrate his point) Doctor, assume this is the planet we're on. This is the approaching asteroid. If we don't get to that deflection point in time, it will become physically impossible to divert this asteroid. In that case, everyone on this planet will die, including the captain.
Mccoy said: Can a few more minutes matter, Spock?
Spock said: In the time it's taken me to explain the problem, the asteroid has moved from here to here. The longer we delay, the less the likelihood of being able to divert it. Beam us up, Mister Scott.
Scene: Obelisk chamber.
Kirk said: (dazed and confused) Where am I? What place is this? What are these? (phaser and communicator) I feel should know. They're familiar and yet unfamiliar. How did I get here? Who am I? Try to remember.
He finds a flight of stairs and walks up, out into the sunshine
Scene: Obelisk.
Two young women are approaching, carrying baskets of food.;
Miramanee said: Wait.
They kneel at the sight of Kirk. Then one gets up and walks up the steps to him, and puts his hand to her forehead.
Kirk said: Who are you?
Miramanee said: We are your people. We've been waiting for you to come to us.
Captain's log, stardate 4843.6. First Officer Spock commanding. We've been en route to the asteroid for several hours. Our delay on the planet's surface has made it imperative that we proceed at maximum warp speed for a period which exceeds the recommended safety margin.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: I can't give you warp nine much longer, Mister Spock. These engines are beginning to show signs of stress.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Stress or not, we cannot reduce speed. I do not intend to miss that
Scene: Engineering.
Spock said: Deflection point.
Scott said: All right, but we're moving further into the danger range all the time.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: If these circuits
Spock said: Objection noted, Mister Scott. Carry on.
Scene: Lodge.
Elder said: Miramanee has said that you appeared to her and to her handmaiden from the walls of the temple, just as our legend foretells. We do not doubt the words of our priestess, but these are troubled times, and we must be sure.
Kirk said: I'll answer anything I can, but as I told you, many things are strange to me.
Salish said: He knows nothing of our danger. How could he save us?
Elder said: It is against custom to interrupt a tribal elder at council, even for the medicine chief.
Salish said: Elder, words will not save us when the skies darken. We must be certain. I say he must prove he is a god.
Elder said: Our skies have darkened three times since the harvest. The last time worst of all. Our legend predicts such danger and promises that the Wise Ones who planted us here will send a god to save us, one who can rouse the temple spirit and make the sky grow quiet. Can you do this?
Kirk said: I came from the temple, as Miramanee said, and it was a beginning for me here. But I came from the sky, too. Only I can't remember. I can't remember.
Miramanee said: Salish, a terrible thing has happened. The boy was attending the fishnets, and he became entangled in them and sank to the bottom of the river. Lumo brought him up quickly, but he doesn't move.
Salish said: There is no sound in the body. There is no light in the eyes. He will move no more.
Kirk said: Wait a moment.
Kirk gives the kiss of life.
Elder said: Wait.
Kirk massages the boy's legs and he coughs, waking up.
Kirk said: He'll be all right now.
Elder said: My people are grateful.
Kirk said: It's a simple technique. It goes way back. Way back.
Elder said: Only a god can breathe life into the dead. Do you still question? Give him the medicine badge.
Miramanee takes the headband with the metal disc from Salish's head and puts it on Kirk. They all salute him.
Scene: Bridge.
The Enterprise has arrived at the asteroid.
Chekov said: Deflection point minus seven.
Scene: Engineering.
Spock said: Full power, Mister Scott.
Scott said: The relays will reject the overload, Mister Spock!
Spock said: Then bypass the relays and go to manual control.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: We'll burn out the engines!
Spock said: I want full power, Mister Scott.
Scott said: Aye, sir.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: All right, you lovelies. Hold together. Full power, Mister Spock.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Magnification factor twelve, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Aye, sir.
Chekov said: Deflection point minus four.
Spock said: All engines stop. Hold position here.
Scott said: All engines stop, sir.
Spock said: Prepare to activate deflectors.
Sulu said: Aye, sir.
Chekov said: Power dropping, sir.
The lights dim.
Spock said: Engineering, maintain full power. Full power.
Scott said: Dilithium crystal circuit's failing, sir. We'll have to replace it.
Spock said: Not now.
Chekov said: Zero. Deflection point now, sir.
Spock said: Activate deflectors.
A beam shoots out and pulses against the big lump of rock.
Chekov said: Power dropping, sir.
Spock said: Degree of deflection, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Not enough, Mister Spock. It's only point zero zero one three degrees.
Spock said: Recircuit power to engines. Maximum speed heading three seven mark zero one zero.
Sulu said: Aye, sir.
Chekov said: That heading will put us directly in the asteroid's path, sir.
Spock said: Correct, Mister Chekov. I intend to retreat in front of that asteroid until we can employ all power on phaser beams.
Mccoy said: What for?
Spock said: To destroy it. A narrow beam concentrated on a single spot will split that mass.
Mccoy said: It might also cripple the ship, and we would be crushed by the asteroid.
Spock said: Incorrect. We'll still be able to get out of its path by use of impulse power.
Mccoy said: Jim won't be able to get out of its path.
Spock said: That, Doctor, is another calculated risk we must take.
Scene: Lakeside.
Miramanee has just filled a skin with water.
Salish said: Miramanee. What are you doing?
Miramanee said: I must see to the needs of the god, as is my duty.
Salish said: You should be working on our ritual cloak.
Miramanee said: There will be no ritual between us now, Salish.
Salish said: What do you mean? We cannot go against tradition.
Miramanee said: It is because of tradition that I cannot marry you.
Salish said: But you are promised to me.
Miramanee said: That was before he came.
Salish said: Tribal priestess and medicine chief are always joined.
Miramanee said: He is medicine chief now. Salish, choose another. Any maiden would be honoured to join with you.
Salish said: I wish no other.
Miramanee said: You have no choice.
Salish said: Miramanee, if you could choose, would you choose me?
She lowers her eyes and walks away.
Scene: Lodge.
Kirk is carving a hole in a gourd.
Miramanee said: Perhaps you would like to bathe now.
Kirk said: Miramanee, tell me about the Wise Ones.
Miramanee said: Tell? But a god knows everything.
Kirk said: Not this one. Tell me.
Miramanee said: The Wise Ones brought us here from far away. They chose a medicine chief to keep the secret of the temple and to use it when the sky darkens.
Kirk said: Secrets of the temple.
Miramanee said: There are no lacings. (his uniform top) How is this thing removed?
Kirk said: The secrets were passed on from father to son?
Miramanee said: Yes. How does this open?
Kirk said: Well, why doesn't Salish use it? Why are the people in danger?
Miramanee said: His father did not wish to share his power too soon. He died before he told Salish the secret.
Two young women enter with trays of fruit, then the tribal elder comes in.
Elder said: Our people rejoice and wish to honour your name, but I did not know what you wish to be called. What may I tell them?
Kirk said: Ki, Kir
Elder said: Kirok?
The women leave.
Elder said: Have we displeased you?
Kirk said: No, no, everything is fine.
Elder said: Then it must be ourselves, the way we live. Perhaps we have not improved as quickly as the Wise Ones wish.
Kirk said: Your land is rich, your people happy. Who could be displeased with that?
Elder said: But there is something. Tell us. We will change it.
Kirk said: I can't tell you anything. All I can tell you is that I'm happy and peaceful here. I'm not sure, but I think I've never felt that way before.
The elder leaves.
Kirk said: Why are they so sure I can help them?
Miramanee said: Well, you came from the stone metal. Did you not bring life to the child?
Kirk said: Yes, but I. I need time to remember.
Miramanee said: Here there is much time. For everything.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Co-ordinates, Mister Chekov.
Chekov said: Tau eight point seven. Beta point zero four one.
Spock said: That is our target. The asteroid's weakest point.
Chekov said: Almost dead centre, sir.
Spock said: Lock all phasers on that mark. Maximum intensity, narrow beam. I want to split that fissure wide open.
Mccoy said: You sound like you're cutting a diamond.
Spock said: Very astute, Doctor.
Sulu said: All phasers locked, sir.
Spock said: We'll fire in sequence and continue firing as long as Mister Scott can maintain power.
Sulu said: Standing by, sir.
Spock said: Fire phasers.
Sulu said: Phaser one firing.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: That Vulcan won't be satisfied till these panels are a puddle of lead.
Sulu said: Phaser two firing.
Engineer said: Main relay's out again, Mister Scott.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Phaser four firing. All phasers fired, sir.
Spock said: Rig for simultaneous firing, Mister Sulu. Commence simultaneous bombardment.
Scene: Engineering.
There are flashes and a sizzling sound from the engines, then they go dark.
Scott said: My bairns. My poor bairns.
Scene: Lodge.
Kirk is dressed in decorated buckskins.
Miramanee said: The ritual cloak is finished. If it pleases you, I would like to name the Joining day.
Kirk said: The Joining day?
Miramanee said: I'm the daughter of the chief. Tribal law betroths me to our leader. If there is another, I will step aside.
Kirk said: No, Miramanee, there's no one else in my mind or my heart.
Miramanee said: God's wish is above tribal law.
Kirk said: Name the Joining day.
Miramanee said: The sooner our happiness together begins, the longer it will last. Tomorrow.
They kiss.
Scene: Spock's quarters.
An image of the obelisk is on the monitor. Spock looks as if he is meditating upon it.
Scott said: Don't ask for anymore warp nine speeds, Mister Spock. Our star drive is completely burned out. The only thing we have left is impulse power.
Spock said: Estimated repair time?
{Engineering]
Scott said: Hanging here in space? Forever.
Scene: Spock's quarters.
Scott said: The only thing that'll fix these poor darlings is the nearest repair base.
Spock said: I've already surmised that. Thank you, Mister Scott.
Mccoy said: Well, Spock, you took your calculated risk in your calculated Vulcan way, and you lost. You lost for us, you lost for that planet, and you lost for Jim.
Spock said: I accept the responsibility, Doctor.
Mccoy said: And my responsibility is the health of this crew. You've been driving yourself too hard, and I want you to get some rest.
Spock said: Mister Chekov, resume heading eight eight three mark four one.
Mccoy said: Back to that planet? Without warp speed, it'll take months, Spock.
Spock said: Exactly fifty nine point two two three days, Doctor, and that asteroid will be four hours behind us all the way.
Mccoy said: Well then what's the use? We might not be able to save the captain even if he still is alive. We might not be able to save anything, including this ship! You haven't heard a word I've said. All you've been doing is staring at that blasted obelisk.
Spock said: Another calculated Vulcan risk, Doctor.
Scene: lodge.
Miramanee is attended by three young women, preparing her for her wedding.
Woman said: This joining means the end of darkness.
Miramanee said: It's a time for joy for all my people.
Scene: Obelisk.
Kirk is having ritual signs painted on his face.
Elder said: You will wait until I walk the holy path to the earth lodge first, to give me time to tell the priestess that you follow and that the Joining will take place.
He leaves Kirk to rejoice in his new life.
Kirk said: I have found paradise. Surely no man has ever attained such happiness.
Scene: Path.
Salish blocks Kirk's way. He has a knife.
Kirk said: Get out of my way, Salish.
Salish said: Even though you be a god, Kirok, I cannot permit this Joining.
Kirk said: Nobody's asking for your permission.
Salish said: Then you must strike me dead.
Kirk said: I have no intention of striking you dead.
Salish cuts Kirk's hand.
Salish said: You bleed. You bleed, Kirok. Behold a god who bleeds! Behold a god who bleeds!
They fight, and Kirk gets Salish pinned to the ground.
Salish said: Kill me. Kill me, Kirok, for I will not rest until I prove to my people that you are no god.
Kirk throws down the knife and walks away.
In the Earth Lodge, Kirk is dressed in the cloak of many coloured feathers, and he and Miramanee stand in front of the elder.
Scene: Spock's quarters.
Mccoy said: I thought you were reporting to Sickbay.
Spock said: There isn't time, Doctor. I must decipher those obelisk's symbols. They're a highly advanced form of cipher writing.
Mccoy said: You've been trying to do that ever since we started back to that planet. Fifty eight days.
Spock said: I'm aware of that, Doctor. I'm also aware when we arrive at the planet, we'll have barely four hours to effect rescue. I believe those symbols are the key.
Mccoy said: Well, you won't read them by killing yourself. You've hardly eaten or slept for weeks. Now if you don't let up, you're going to collapse.
Spock said: I am not hungry, Doctor. And under stress, we Vulcans can do without sleep for weeks.
Mccoy said: Well, your Vulcan metabolism is so low it can hardly be measured, and as for the pressure, that green ice water you call blood
Spock said: My physical condition is not important, Doctor. That obelisk is.
Mccoy said: Well, my diagnosis is exhaustion brought on from overwork and guilt. You're blaming yourself for crippling this ship, just as we blamed you. Well, we were wrong. So were you. You made a command decision. Jim would have done the same. My prescription is rest, now. Do I have to call the security guards to enforce it?
Spock goes and lies on his bed. McCoy leaves. Spock gets up again and returns to his study of the symbols.
Scene: Forest.
Bare-chested Kirk is chasing laughing Miramanee through the trees.
Kirk said: Miramanee. Come here. Miramanee.
He catches her and they kiss.
Miramanee said: Each time your arms hold me is as joyous as the first.
Kirk said: I'm happy. I'm so happy. If it weren't for the dreams, my mind would be completely at peace.
Miramanee said: I thought you no longer had the dreams, that you no longer saw the strange lodge which moves through the sky.
Kirk said: They've come back. They were gone for a while, but they've come back, and I see faces, too. Very dim. I feel I should know know them. I feel my place is with them, not here. I don't deserve this happiness.
Miramanee said: I have a gift for you.
Kirk said: A gift? What?
Miramanee said: It may make you happy. Wait.
Kirk said: These last few weeks, my love for Miramanee grows stronger with each passing day. However, the dreams return every night. Fragments of memories. I can almost get hold of them, and then
Miramanee returns with what native american women carry their babies in.
Miramanee said: I bear your child.
Kirk said: You!
They embrace again.
Scene: Lodge.
Kirk has made a puddle in the mud floor of their home and is explaining irrigation to Miramanee.
Kirk said: A canal. And with it we'll bring the water from the lake right to the lodge. And we can expand the system, and irrigate the fields and double the food supply.
Miramanee said: And with the power of the lamp. Lamp?
Kirk said: Lamp.
Miramanee said: Which turns night into day, we can cook twice as much food, and as you taught us, pre
Kirk said: Preserve.
Miramanee said: Preserve.
Kirk said: Preserve.
MIRAMANEE@ For times of famine. That is why you made the lamp, Kirok, so that I would never know when it was night, and I would be forever cooking.
Kirk said: Oh, no. No, no, no, no, no. That's not why I made the lamp at all, to keep you forever cooking.
Thunder and lightning as they kiss, then a wind starts up.
Kirk said: It's only the wind and the thunder.
Miramanee said: I act like a stupid child. I have nothing to fear. You are here. (she looks outside) It is time.
KIRK; Time?
Miramanee said: To go to the temple. The people will be waiting.
Kirk said: Why?
Miramanee said: To save them.
Kirk said: But it's only the wind. The wind can't harm them.
Miramanee said: The wind is only the beginning. Soon the sky will darken, the lake will go wild, and the earth will tremble. Only you can save us.
Kirk said: But I can't do anything about the wind or the sky.
Miramanee said: If we don't go now, it will be too late. You must go inside the temple and make the blue flame come out.
Kirk said: I don't know how to get inside the temple.
Miramanee said: But you are a god.
Elder said: (bursting in) Kirok! Kirok!
Salish said: Why are you not at the temple, Kirok? Soon the ground will begin to tremble. The people need your help.
Kirk said: We'll go to the caves. It'll be safe there.
Salish said: The caves? Surely a legend can do more than that for his people.
Elder said: When the ground trembles the caves are not safe, Kirok. If you do not rouse the temple spirit, we will all die.
Miramanee said: There is nothing you cannot do, my husband.
Salish said: Well, what do you wait for, god? Your robes?
Kirk said: Take care of Miramanee.
Scene: Obelisk.
Salish watches from a distance as Kirk beats on the obelisk's wall trying to work out how to get inside.
Kirk said: I am Kirok! I have come! I am Kirok!
Salish smiles at his failure.
Scene: Spock's quarters.
Spock is playing his lyre.
Mccoy said: I prescribed sleep.
Spock said: You prescribed rest, Doctor. The symbols on the obelisk are not words. They are musical notes.
Mccoy said: Musical notes? You mean it's nothing but a song?
Spock said: In a way, yes. Other cultures, among them certain Vulcan offshoots, use musical notes as words. The tones correspond roughly to an alphabet.
Mccoy said: Were you able to make sense our of the symbols?
Spock said: Yes. The obelisk is a marker, just as I thought. It was left by a super-race known as the Preservers. They passed through the galaxy rescuing primitive cultures which were in danger of extinction and seeding them, so to speak, where they could live and grow.
Mccoy said: I've always wondered why there were so many humanoids scattered through the galaxy.
Spock said: So have I. Apparently the Preservers account for a number of them.
Mccoy said: That's probably how the planet has survived all these centuries. The Preservers put an asteroid deflector on the planet.
Spock said: Which has now become defective and is failing to operate.
Mccoy said: And we have to find that deflector and put it back into working order, otherwise
Spock said: Precisely, Doctor.
Scene: Obelisk.
Salish has brought a crowd armed with stones.
Salish said: There's the false one!
They throw their stones at Kirk. ALL: Die! Die! Die!
Miramanee said: No! No! Don't hurt him!
Salish holds her back.
Kirk said: Miramanee!
Miramanee said: Don't hurt him! He can save us!
Salish said: He's false!
Miramanee said: I belong to him.
Salish said: Then go. Go die with your false god.
All said: You'll be killed! Kill him! We're all doomed! Die, impostor! You lied to us! You're not a god! We'll kill you now!
Spock and McCoy beam down as Miramanee and Kirk fall under the hail of stones. The crowd runs away when they see them. McCoy checks Kirk first.
Mccoy said: I need Nurse Chapel.
Spock said: Spock to Enterprise.
Scott said: Come in, Mister Spock.
Spock said: We've located the captain. Beam down Nurse Chapel with an emergency surgical kit.
Kirk said: My wife. Is she all right?
Mccoy said: Wife?
Spock said: Hallucinations?
Chapel beams down.
Kirk said: Miramanee.
Spock rolls Miramanee onto her back, and Chapel gives her an injection.
Spock said: The nurse has given you something to ease the pain. Why were you being stoned?
Miramanee said: Kirok could not get back into the temple.
Spock said: Naturally, since he did not come from there.
Miramanee said: I saw him come, come.
Chapel said: Does he recognise us?
Mccoy said: His brain is unimpaired. Everything else is functionally normally except his memory.
Spock said: : Can you help him?
Mccoy said: It'd take time.
Spock said: Time, Doctor McCoy, is the one thing we do not have in abundance. (communicator beeps) Spock here.
Sulu said: Tracking report, sir. Sixty five minutes to end of safety margin.
Spock said: Report noted. Doctor, is he strong enough for the Vulcan mind fusion?
Mccoy said: We have no choice.
So Spock places his hands on Kirk's face and starts the procedure.
Spock said: I am Spock. You are James Kirk. Our minds are moving closer. Closer, closer, closer, James Kirk. Closer.
Kirk said: No!
Spock said: James Kirk.
Kirk said: Miramanee! No! Miramanee!
Spock said: Our minds are one.
Both said: I am Kirok. I am Kirok.
Spock said: I am Kir
Kirk said: I am Kirok! I am
Spock said: Spock!
He breaks the link
Mccoy said: What is it?
Spock said: His mind. He is an extremely dynamic individual.
Kirk said: It worked.
Kirk goes to Miramanee.
Spock said: Captain, were you inside this structure?
Kirk said: Yes. What's inside is loaded with scientific equipment.
Spock said: This obelisk is one huge deflector mechanism. It is imperative that we get inside immediately. Captain, we do not have much time.
Kirk said: McCoy.
McCoy and Chapel start tending to Miramanee.
Kirk said: I don't know how to get inside.
Spock said: If we are not able to gain entry and activate the deflector mechanism within the next fifty minutes, this entire planet will be destroyed.
Kirk said: The key must be in these symbols. We've got to decipher them.
Spock said: I already have to some extent, Captain. They are musical notes.
Kirk said: You mean entry can be gained by playing certain notes on a musical instrument?
Spock said: That would be one method. Another would be a series of tonal qualities spoken in their proper sequence.
Kirk said: Give me your communicator. Tonal control, consonants and vowels. I must have hit it accidentally when I contacted the ship.
Spock said: If you could remember your exact words, Captain.
Kirk said: (flipping open the communicator) Kirk to Enterprise.
Scott said: Aye, Captain.
The hatch slides open, with Miramanee still lying on it.
Kirk said: Scotty, if the deflector isn't activated within twenty minutes, get out of orbit. Get the Enterprise out of the danger zone. The landing party is expendable. The Enterprise isn't. Kirk out. Miramanee. Bones, stay with her. Do what you can.
Scene: Obelisk Chamber.
Spock said: It is similar to deflector panels I've seen, Captain, but far more complicated.
Kirk said: Careful. I must have hit something accidentally. A beam caught me and that's when I stopped remembering.
Spock said: Probably a memory beam. You must have activated it out of sequence.
Kirk said: More symbols. Can you read them?
Spock said: I do have an excellent eye for musical notes, Captain. They would seem to indicate that this series of relays activated in their proper
Kirk said: Spock, just press the right button.
Spock presses the middle button of a row of three, and other sections light up. A blue beam shoots out of the top of the obelisk and pushes the asteroid away.
Scene: Lodge.
Kirk said: How is she?
Mccoy said: She had bad internal injuries, Jim.
Kirk said: Will she live?
Mccoy said: No.
Miramanee said: (in pain) Kirok. It is true. You are safe.
Kirk said: And so are your people, Miramanee.
Miramanee said: I knew you would save them, my chief. When I am better, it will be as it was, will it not?
Kirk said: If that's what you want.
Miramanee said: We will live long and happy lives. I will bear you many strong sons. I'll love you always.
Kirk said: And I'll love you, Miramanee. Always.
He kisses her.
Miramanee said: Each kiss is as the first. (she dies)