Elaan of Troyius
Stardate: 4372.5
Original Airdate: 20 Dec, 1968
Captain's Log: Stardate 4372.5. On a top-secret diplomatic mission, the Enterprise has entered the Tellun star system. Maintaining communications blackout, we have taken aboard Petri, Ambassador from Troyius, the outer planet, and are now approaching the inner planet Elas.
Scene: Turbolift.
Kirk said: Some desk-bound Starfleet bureaucrat cut these cloak-and-dagger orders.
Scott said: Aye, but why the secrecy? This star system's under Federation control.
Spock said: It's in a border area, Mister Scott. The Klingons also claim jurisdiction.
Scott said: From what I've seen, it's not worth fighting about. Why are we here, Captain?
Kirk said: My orders are to co-operate with Ambassador Petri in all matters pertaining to his mission here.
Uhura said: Bridge to Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Scotty. (Scott presses the intercom button) Kirk here. What is it?
Uhura said: Captain, I have a signal from the Elasians. They're ready to beam aboard, and they demand an explanation for the delay.
Kirk said: Demand? What delay? All right. Beam them aboard.
Spock said: Sounds typical of the Elasians. The scientists who made the initial investigation reported the men were vicious and arrogant.
Mccoy said: That's just the negative part, Mister Spock. I've been over those records. Now the women, they're supposed to be something very special. They're supposed to have a kind of subtle, mystical power that drives men wild.
Scene: Corridor.
The Ambassador is a skinny humanoid with orange hair and grass green skin.
Kirk said: Ambassador Petri, would you drop all this nonsense and tell me what this is about?
Petri said: That must wait until the Dohlman is aboard.
Kirk said: Dohlman? What the devil is a Dohlman?
Scene: Transporter room.
Petri said: The thing most feared and hated by my people. Our most deadly enemy.
Three burly men are beamed aboard. They draw their weapons.
Petri said: Welcome. I am Petri, Ambassador of Troyius.
Kirk said: I'm Captain Kirk. This ship is under my command.
Kryton said: There's a Troyian here. I must know that all is secure before the Dohlman is brought on board.
Kirk said: This ship is secure and we're prepared for any hostile acts. Energise.
The Elasians get down on one knee.
Kryton said: Do honour to the Dohlman of Elas.
Petri kneels
Kryton said: Glory to Elaan, Dohlman of Elas.
A woman in little more than a high-necked bathing suit is beamed aboard. She is beautiful, but slightly sullen. The Enterprise officers kneel.
Kryton said: You may stand.
Kirk said: Body armour, nuclear weapons.
Spock said: Not without precedent, Captain. Remember that
Kryton said: Permission to speak was not given.
Elaan said: You rule this ship?
Spock said: I am the first officer. This is Captain James Kirk.
Petri said: Your Glory, I am Petri. In the name of my people
Elaan said: Your mission is known to us. Captain Kirk, you have now permission to show us to our quarters.
Kirk said: Well, now, just a moment. There's going to have to be some kind of understanding.
Petri said: Please.
Kirk said: My first officer Mister Spock will show you to your quarters. Ambassador, I'd like to speak to you.
Elaan said: You have not been dismissed.
Kirk said: May I have your permission to go?
Elaan said: You are now dismissed.
Kirk said: Why, thank you. Ambassador.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: Ambassador, I think it's time you told me what's going on.
Petri said: That creature, Elaan, is to be the wife of our ruler to bring peace. Our two warring planets now possess the capability of mutual destruction. Some method of co-existence must be found.
Kirk said: I see. So, we go back to Troyius.
Petri said: Yes. But slowly, Captain. I will need time. Before we reach there, she must be taught civilised manners. In her present condition, my people would never accept her.
Kirk said: And you are to be her teacher?
Petri said: Those are my orders. I must ask you and your crew to respect, or at least tolerate, their arrogance. Friction must be kept at a minimum.
Kirk said: Yes, that I can understand.
Petri said: Another thing you should understand, Captain. You have as much at stake as I have. Your superiors made the statement that failure of this mission would be as catastrophic for Federation planning as it would be for our two planets. To gain peace at the price of accepting such a queen is no victory. I will take her the official gifts I bear. Perhaps that will soften her mood.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Mister Chekov, lay in a course for Troyius. Mister Sulu, impulse drive, speed factor point zero three seven.
Sulu said: Impulse drive, Captain?
Kirk said: Yes, that's correct, Mister Sulu. Sublight factor point zero three seven.
Sulu said: Aye, aye, sir.
Scott said: Captain? You'll not be using the warp drive? All the way on impulse? That'll take a great deal of time.
Kirk said: You in a hurry, Mister Scott?
Scott said: No.
Spock enters.
Spock said: Captain, the Dohlman is dissatisfied with the quarters provided.
Uhura said: What's the matter with them, Mister Spock?
Spock said: I do not know, but all the Elasians seem most irrational.
Uhura said: I gave up my quarters because I
Kirk said: Yes, I appreciate your sacrifice, Lieutenant Uhura. I'll talk to her myself.
Scene: Elaan's quarters.
Elaan is throwing slippers at Petri.
Elaan said: Swine! Take back your gifts!
Petri said: Your Glory, these are your wedding slippers.
Elaan said: Your ruler cannot buy the favours of the Dohlman of Elas.
Petri said: This, (a sky blue thing) this is your wedding dress, a gift from the bridegroom's mother.
Elaan said: I want nothing of his!
Petri said: This, This is the most prized of royal jewels for your lovely neck.
Kirk enters.
Elaan said: I would strangle if I was to put the gift of a Troyian dog around my neck. Kryton, by whose permission did he enter?
Kryton said: He came in answer to your summons.
Kirk said: I understand you're not happy with your quarters.
Elaan said: Quarters! (throws something that breaks)
Kirk said: Yes, not happy at all.
Elaan said: Am I a soft Troyian fawn to need pillows to sit on? And these ridiculous female trappings. They are an offense to my eyes.
Kirk said: My communications officer generously vacated the rooms hoping you would find it satisfactory.
Elaan said: I do not find them so, and I find him even less satisfactory. Must my bitterness be compounded with that ridiculous ambassador aboard your ship?
Petri said: I explained to Her Glory that her council of nobles and the Troyius Tribunal jointly agreed that I should instruct (pause) make her acquainted with the customs and manners of our people.
Elaan said: Kryton! Remove him! And take that garbage with you?
Petri picks up the wedding dress and necklace box, and leaves with Kryton.
Elaan said: He dares to suggest that I adopt the servile manners of his people!
Kirk said: Your Glory doesn't seem to be responding to instruction.
Elaan said: I will never forgive the council for putting me through this torture. Were you responding to my demand for better quarters?
Kirk said: There are none better. I suggest you make do with these.
Elaan said: You suggest?
Kirk said: There are no more available, but if that's the only way you can get gratification, I'll arrange to have the whole room filled from floor to ceiling with breakable objects.
Elaan said: I will not be humiliated!
Kirk said: Then act in a civilised fashion.
Elaan said: I did not give you permission to leave!
Kirk said: I didn't ask for any.
Scene: Corridor.
Petri said: Captain, I wish to contact my government. I cannot fulfil my mission. It would be an insult to our ruler to bring this incorrigible monster as a bride!
Kirk said: Ambassador! This is supposed to be a peaceful mission.
Petri said: There cannot be peace between us. We have deluded ourselves. Captain, when I am near them, I do not want peace. I want to kill them.
Kirk said: You're as bad as she is. It's not required that you like each other. Just do your job.
Petri said: Job? The job is impossible. We cannot make peace with people we detest.
Kirk said: Stop trying to kill each other. Then worry about being friendly.
Petri said: But if she won't listen to me
Kirk said: Then make her listen, Ambassador. Use a different approach. Stop being so diplomatic. She respects strength. Go in strong.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: At first it appeared to be a sensor ghost, but I've run checks on all the instrumentation. All the equipment is functioning perfectly.
Kirk said: Hydrogen cloud reflection?
Spock said: None in this area. Nothing that would account for it. The ghost appears intermittently.
Kirk said: Speculation?
Spock said: None, Captain. Insufficient data.
Kirk said: It's not an instrument malfunction. It's not a reflection from a natural phenomenon. A spaceship?
Scott said: Engineering to Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: Captain, I know what you said about showing respect, but must I have these persons fool around with my equipment?
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Hang on, Scotty. Be pleasant no matter how much it hurts. I'll be right down.
Scene: Engineering.
Man said: We're only running on impulse engines now. Ordinarily, we use the warp engines exclusively.
Scott said: Well, I suppose, lassie, that even our impulse engines must seem fast compared to your nuclear propulsion units.
Elaan said: We are interested in how the ship is used in combat, not in what drives it. Engines are for mechanics and menials.
Scott said: Menials? Without engines, there'd be no fighting or
Kirk said: Mister Scott! I wish you had told me you wanted a tour of the engineering department.
Elaan said: Do we not have the freedom of this ship? We have granted your crew the permission not to kneel in our presence. What else do you want?
Kirk said: Courtesy. Remember?
Elaan said: Courtesy is not for inferiors.
Kirk said: Courtesy is for everyone around here, and you'll find you won't be able to exist on Troyius without it. Mister Scott, our Chief Engineer, has shown you his engineering department. That's a courtesy. You respond by saying thank you.
The diminutive firecracker stalks away with her bodyguards.
Spock said: Bridge to Captain.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Spock said: That sensor ghost is moving closer.
Kirk said: On my way.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Lost contact now.
Spock said: Captain, we had a momentary fix on the object enough to establish it was a spaceship.
Kirk said: Whose?
Spock said: No data yet.
Sulu said: Captain! Distant bearing, sir, mark seven three point five.
Kirk said: Main screen. Extreme magnification.
A Klingon ship appears in view.
Spock said: Our ghost has materialised.
Kirk said: A Klingon warship. (after a few moments) Any change, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Negative, Captain. The Klingon ship has simply moved into contact range. She is pacing us, precisely matching our sublight speed and on a parallel course.
Security said: Security to Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Kirk here. What is it?
Security said: Disturbance in the Dohlman's quarters, sir.
Kirk said: On my way.
Scene: Corridor.
Security said: Captain, it's Ambassador Petri. They refuse to explain what's happening, but
Kryton said: Her Glory has not summoned you.
Elaan comes out of her room
Elaan said: Kryton, remove that Troyian pig.
Petri is lying on the floor, with a dagger in his back.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: It was a deep wound, Jim. He lost a lot of blood, but he'll recover.
Petri said: If I recover, it will be no thanks to you, Captain.
Kirk said: I said talk with her, not fight with her.
Petri said: I should've known better than to talk to her unarmed, but you forced me. I hold you responsible for this.
Mccoy said: Well, I've heard of reluctant brides, but this is ridiculous.
Uhura said: Captain Kirk. May I speak with you, sir?
Kirk said: Yes. Certainly.
Uhura said: A message just came from Starfleet Command. It was class-A security and scrambled. I put it through the decoder.
Kirk said: What was it?
Uhura said: The Federation High Commissioner is on his way to Troyius to attend the royal wedding.
Chapel said: Ambassador, if Elasian women are that vicious, why are men so overwhelmingly attracted to them? I mean, what magic do they possess?
Petri said: It's not magic. It's biochemical. A man whose flesh is once touched by the tears of a woman of Elas has his heart enslaved forever.
Kirk said: Ambassador, there's an added complication. The Federation High Commissioner will be attending the wedding.
Mccoy said: The fat will be in the fire when he learns the bride just tried to murder the groom's ambassador.
Petri said: There will be no wedding. I would not have our ruler marry that monster if the entire galaxy depended on it, and I will have nothing further to do with you.
Kirk said: I'm not asking you to have anything to do with me. Do your job with her. How long before he's on his feet?
Mccoy said: It'll be a few days. A week, at least, Jim.
Petri said: Here you put me, Captain. Here I will stay. I have nothing further to say to you.
Scene: Elaan's quarters.
She is dining like a Tudor royal, ripping poultry apart with her hands.
Elaan said: So, Ambassador Petri is going to recover? That is too bad. You have delivered your message. Now you may go.
Kirk said: Nothing would please me more, Your Glory. But your impetuous nature
Elaan said: Your Troyian pig was here in my quarters without any permission, so I stabbed him. Just to be Troyian is enough.
Kirk said: You Elasians pride yourselves on being a warrior people. You must understand discipline to be able to give and take orders. My orders are to take you to Troyius to be married and to see that you learn Troyian customs.
Elaan said: I despise Troyians. Any contact with them makes me feel soiled.
Kirk said: It's been my experience that the prejudices people feel about each other disappear when they get to know each other.
Elaan said: It's not in my experience.
Kirk said: Well, we're still faced with the same problem.
Elaan said: Problem?
Kirk said: Yes, the problem of your indoctrination to Troyian customs and manners.
Elaan said: I have eliminated that problem.
Kirk said: You have eliminated the teacher. The problem still remains.
Elaan said: Oh. And how do we solve the problem?
Kirk said: By giving you a new teacher.
Elaan said: Tell me, what can you teach me?
Kirk said: Table manners, for one thing. This is a plate. It contains food. This is a knife. It cuts the food. This is a glass.
Elaan said: Leave me!
Kirk said: Like it or not, you're going to learn what you've been ordered to learn.
Elaan said: You will return me to Elas immediately.
Kirk said: That's impossible.
Elaan said: Everything I order is possible.
Kirk said: That's the first problem we're going to work on. Then we'll get you ready to go to Troyius.
Elaan said: I will not go to Troyius, I will not be mated to a Troyian, and I will not be humiliated, and I will not be given to a green pig as a bribe to stop a war!
Kirk said: You enjoy the privileges and prerogatives of being a Dohlman. Then be worthy of them. If you don't want the obligations that go along with the title, then give it up.
Elaan said: Nobody speaks to me that way.
Kirk said: That's another one of your problems. Nobody's told you that you're an uncivilized savage, a vicious child in a woman's body, an arrogant monster!
Elaan slaps Kirk, so he slaps her back.
Kirk said: That's no way to treat someone who's telling you the truth.
He turns to leave, she takes a knife from her sleeve and throws it. It just misses him and sticks in the wall.
Kirk said: Tomorrow's lesson will be on courtesy.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Lieutenant, open up the hailing frequency, identify us, and ask the Klingon his intentions.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Meanwhile, Kryton is sneaking around in Engineering, and messing with the dilithium crystals.
Uhura said: Captain, no response from the Klingon vessel on any channel.
Kirk said: I see. All right, Lieutenant. Monitor all frequencies. Phaser crews stand by. Maintain Yellow Alert.
Scene: Engineering.
Watson said: What are you doing?
Kryton kills the red-shirt and hides his body, then continues with his sabotage.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk is prevented from entering Elaan's quarters.
Elasian said: No one may enter the Dohlman's presence.
Kirk said: Where's Kryton?
Elasian said: On business. No one may enter the Dohlman's presence.
Kirk said: Will you tell Her Glory that Captain Kirk requests the honour of a visit.
Elasian said: The Dohlman has promised I'll be whipped to death if I let Captain Kirk pass through that door.
They push Kirk away, so Spock stuns them with a phaser.
Kirk said: Thank you, Mister Spock. When they wake up, take them to Security holding.
Spock said: Captain, your analysis of the situation was flawless, anticipating that she would deny you admittance. However, the logic by which you arrived at your conclusion escapes me.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, the women on your planet are logical. That's the only planet in this galaxy that can make that claim.
Scene: Elaan's quarters.
Elaan takes another swing at Kirk, so he forces her back down onto the bed.
Elaan said: You dare touch a member of the royal family.
Kirk said: Only in self-defence. Now, are you going to behave or not?
Elaan said: The penalty is death for what you are doing.
Kirk said: We're not on Elas. We're on my starship. I command here.
She bites his hand and runs into the bathroom.
Elaan said: You are warned, Captain, never to touch me again.
Kirk said: If I touch you again, Your Glory, it'll be to administer an ancient Earth custom called a spanking, a form of punishment administered to spoiled brats.
Elaan said: You have my leave to go.
Kirk said: You forget, Your Glory, we haven't started your lesson in courtesy.
Elaan said: You can teach me nothing, Captain. If I have to stay here for ten light years, I will not be soiled by any contact with you.
Kirk said: Very well. I'll send in Mister Spock or Doctor McCoy. Either way, you're going to be properly prepared for Troyius. As ordered by councils, rulers, and bureaucrats.
She comes back out.
Elaan said: Captain, there is one thing you can teach me.
Kirk said: No, no, you were right the first time. There's nothing I can teach you. There's nothing you do not know.
Elaan said: I don't know how to make people like me. I don't want everybody to hate me.
Kirk said: Well, it's not it's not that people hate you. It's just that people don't like to be treated as though they don't exist.
He wipes a tear from her face.
Kirk said: It's, er, gotten very, er. Something must've gone wrong with the ventilation system.
Elaan said: Captain?
Kirk said: Pardon me, Your Glory. There will be a short recess.
Elaan said: Captain.
They kiss.
Elaan said: Captain, that ancient Earth custom called spanking, what is it?
Kirk said: It's, er, It's, er. We'll talk about it later.
He pulls her into a passionate embrace.
In Engineering, Kryton finishes his task and opens a communicator.
Scene: Bridge.
A light flashes on Uhura's panel.
Uhura said: Bridge to Captain Kirk. Mister Spock, I'm getting
Spock said: I have it on my sensor, Lieutenant.
Uhura said: Bridge to Captain Kirk. Come in, please. Captain Kirk, please answer.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Uhura said: Oh, Captain, I'm picking up a transmission from inside the Enterprise. It's on a tight beam aimed at the Klingon vessel.
{Elaan's quarters]
Kirk said: Inside the Enterprise? Can you pinpoint it?
Spock said: Spock here, Captain. I am triangulating now. It's coming from the engineering section.
Kirk said: Security to Engineering. Intruder alert. Security alert to all decks. Kirk out.
He leaves Elaan on the bed with a smug smile on her face.
Scene: Engineering.
Kryton has been caught.
Scott said: Nobody saw him, but that devil sneaked back in here some way. Watson must've caught him and he was killed for it. He had this. Looks like some sort of transmitter.
Kirk said: It's Klingon. Bones?
Mccoy said: Neck snapped clean.
Kirk said: What kind of signal did you send the Klingon ship?
Kryton said: Captain, you must know I will tell you nothing. Our interrogation techniques are more excruciating than you are even capable of.
Kirk said: Yes, I'm aware you're trained to resist any form of physical torture. Kirk to Spock.
Spock said: Spock here, Captain.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, it was Kryton transmitting. He refuses to talk. I'll need you for the Vulcan mind meld.
Kryton grabs a security guard's phaser and vapourises himself.
Security said: Captain, I'm sorry. He seemed
Kirk said: What was he trying to cover that was so important he felt he had to die for it? Scotty, he didn't come into Engineering just to use the transmitter. I want you to check every relay you've got.
Scott said: Captain, you must realise the time
Kirk said: Don't waste the time telling me about it. Get to it.
Scott said: Aye.
Scene: Elaan's quarters.
Elaan said: Kryton was of a noble family. He loved me and wanted to marry me. He was furious when he heard of the announcement of the wedding plans.
Kirk said: He sold out to the Klingons because of jealousy?
Elaan said: Probably. But why speak of unimportant matters when we can speak about us?
Kirk said: There's a Klingon warship out there. What's their involvement? Surely all of this isn't because they want to stop a marriage.
Elaan said: We should welcome their help.
Kirk said: Elaan. Elaan, two planets, an entire star system's stability depends on it. We have a duty to forget what happened.
Elaan said: Could you do that? Could you give me to another man?
Kirk said: My orders and yours say that you belong to another man. What happened, what happened was an accident.
Elaan said: It was no accident. I chose you, and you chose me. I have a plan. With this ship, you could completely obliterate Troyius. Then there will be no need for the marriage. And in gratitude, my people will give you the complete rule of this system.
Kirk said: What kind of a mind could think of such a thing?
Elaan said: He's a Troyian.
They kiss, and the doorbell buzzes.
Spock said: Captain?
Elaan said: You cannot resist my love, my love.
Spock said: Captain.
The door opens, and McCoy and Spock see the lovers in their close embrace.
Spock said: May we see you a moment?
Mccoy said: Jim. Jim! May we please have a word with you?
Scene: Corridor.
Spock said: Captain, are you all right?
Mccoy said: Did she cry, Jim?
Kirk said: What?
Mccoy said: Did she cry? Did her tears touch you at any time?
Kirk looks at his hand.
Mccoy said: Oh, we're in trouble. Now listen, Jim. Petri told Christine that the Elasian women have a sort of a biochemical substance in their tears that acts like a super love potion. And according to him, it doesn't wear off.
Spock said: It is true then, Captain?
Kirk said: It's true. Bones, you've got to find me an antidote.
Mccoy said: I'll try, but I'll need tests and
Sulu said: Bridge to Captain.
Kirk said: Captain here.
Sulu said: Captain, the Klingon ship has changed course. It is heading toward us at warp speed.
Kirk said: I'm on my way. Battle stations.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Phasers stand by.
Sulu said: Phasers ready, sir.
Spock said: Their speed is better than warp six, Captain.
Kirk said: Mister Chekov, lay in a course to take us out of this star system. If they want to fight, Let's get some manoeuvering room.
Chekov said: Course computed, sir.
Sulu said: Laid in, Captain.
Kirk said: All right. Ahead warp factor two.
Scott said: Captain, the matter-antimatter
Kirk said: Belay that order. What is it, Scotty?
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: The anti-matter pods are rigged to blow up the moment we go into warp drive.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Scotty, that bomb he planted. Can you dismantle it?
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: Not without being blown halfway across the galaxy.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Give us every ounce of power you can from the impulse drive, and find a solution to the bomb. Kirk out. Mister Sulu, stand by to make your manoeuvres smartly. She'll be sluggish on response.
Elaan enters the bridge. Kirk sees her during Sulu's countdown.
Sulu said: Aye, sir. One hundred thousand kilometres. Ninety. Eighty.
Kirk said: Phaser crews, stand by to fire on command.
Sulu said: Sixty.
Kirk said: Ready.
Sulu said: Fifty.
Kirk said: Hold your fire.
Sulu said: She's passed us without firing a shot.
Spock said: I don't think they meant to attack us. We were very fortunate this time.
Kirk said: Yes, their tactics are quite clear now, Mister Spock. They were trying to make us cut in warp drive. That way we'd have blown ourselves up and solved their problem for them without risking war with the Federation. Very neat.
Spock said: Very. But why do the Klingons consider the possession of this system so vital?
Kirk said: Yes, a very good question, Mister Spock.
Spock said: I have another question, Captain. Is not the bridge the wrong place for the Dohlman at a time like this?
Kirk said: I'll be the judge. Yes, you're quite right. Thank you, Mister Spock. (to Elaan) I want you to go to Sickbay. It's the best protected part of the ship.
Elaan said: I want to be by your side.
Kirk said: Your presence here is interfering with my efficiency, my ability to protect you. Mister Spock, you have the conn.
Scene: Turbolift.
Kirk said: Deck five.
Elaan said: I love you. I have chosen you, and still I don't understand why you didn't fight the Klingon.
Kirk said: If I can accomplish my mission by turning tail and running, I'll gladly do that.
Elaan said: And that mission is to take me to Troyius.
Kirk said: Yes.
Elaan said: Would you have me wearing my wedding dress for another man and never see you again?
Kirk said: Yes, Elaan.
Elaan said: Are you happy at the prospect?
Kirk said: No.
Scott said: Scott to Captain.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: I've got bad news, Captain. The entire dilithium crystal converter assembly is fused. No chance of repair.
Scene: Turbolift.
Scott said: It's completely unusable.
Kirk said: No chance of restoring warp drive?
Scott said: Not without dilithium crystals. We can't even generate enough power to fire our weapons.
Kirk said: Kirk out. Elaan, I have to go back to the Bridge. Please, you must go to Sickbay.
Elaan said: Yes, my love.
Scene: Medical lab.
Chapel said: Test number twenty four. Colladium trioxide in algobarium solution.
Mccoy said: Results also negative.
Petri said: Doctor, there is no antidote to the poison of Elasian tears. The men of Elas have tried desperately for centuries to dispel its power. You're wasting your time, Doctor.
Mccoy said: It is my time to waste, Ambassador.
Elaan said: Doctor? The Captain asked me to come here for safety.
Petri said: Safety? What is your estimate of our chances for survival, Doctor?
Mccoy said: That is the captain's responsibility, Ambassador.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Captain, message from the Klingon ship. They're ordering us to stand by for boarding or be destroyed.
Spock said: They demand an immediate reply.
Kirk said: They're trying to force a fight. Scotty, what's our energy status?
Scott said: Ninety three percent of impulse power, sir.
Spock said: We can still manoeuvre.
Scott said: Manoeuvre? Aye. We can wallow like a garbage scow against a warp-driven starship.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: Our shields will hold for a few passes, but without the matter-antimatter reactor, we've no chance. Captain, can you not call Starfleet on this emergency?
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: And let the Klingons know they succeeded in wiping out our warp engines?
Spock said: Help could not arrive before the Enterprise would be destroyed.
Scene: Medical lab.
Petri said: Now that we are all about to die, I ask you once again to accept this necklace, and to wear it as a token of respect for the desperate wishes of your people and mine for peace.
Elaan said: That's all you men of other worlds can speak of, duty and responsibility.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: We'll stall for time, proceed on course and hope the Klingons can be bluffed. Or that they're not prepared for a general war. Open a hailing frequency.
Uhura said: Frequency open, sir.
Kirk said: This is Captain James Kirk of the USS Enterprise on Federation business. Our mission is peaceful, but we're not prepared to accept any interference.
Klingon said: Enterprise, prepare to be boarded or destroyed.
Kirk said: I'd say our strategy wasn't totally effective.
Sulu said: Captain, the Klingon ship is closing on an intercept course. Five hundred thousand kilometres. Deflector shields up.
Kirk said: Scotty, can you give me partial power on the phaser banks?
Elaan enters, in the blue wedding dress and wearing the necklace.
Scott said: No, sir, not a chance.
Sulu said: Three hundred thousand kilometres.
Kirk said: I told you to stay in Sickbay.
Elaan said: I want to die with you.
Kirk said: We're not going to die. Now get off the bridge.
Sulu said: One hundred thousand kilometres.
Weapons fire hits the Enterprise
Spock said: He's passed us. All shields held.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu, bring her to one four three mark two. Keep our forward shields to him.
Sulu said: Here he comes again, sir.
Kirk said: Stay with the controls. Keep our forward shields to him.
Spock said: Better than warp seven.
Kirk said: Hard over, Sulu. Bring her around. He's going for our flank. (another disruptor hit) Sulu!
Sulu said: Sorry, Captain. She won't respond fast enough on impulse.
Spock said: He's past us again. Damage to number four shield.
Kirk said: How bad?
Spock said: It will not withstand another full charge, Captain. I'm getting some very peculiar energy readings.
Sulu said: He's paralleling us again. He seems to have broken off the attack.
Kirk said: What sort of readings, Mister Spock?
Spock said: She is the source.
Kirk said: Elaan?
Spock said: The necklace.
Kirk said: What kind of jewels are in this?
Elaan said: They call them radans. The necklace is supposed to bring you luck. It is of little value. They are common stones.
Spock said: These are common stones? (scans them) See, Captain? Here and here.
Kirk said: Common stones? Now I see why the Klingons are interested in this system. May I have this?
Elaan said: If I can be of any help, of course.
Kirk said: You may have just saved our lives. Mister Spock, do you think Scotty could make use of dilithium crystals?
Spock said: No doubt, Captain.
Sulu said: He's coming in again, sir.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu, prepare on my order to turn quickly to port. Try and protect the number four shield.
Sulu said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Now, Sulu. hard a-port!
Another disrupter hit
Sulu said: Shields holding, but weakened, sir.
Uhura said: Captain. Message coming in.
Klingon said: Enterprise, our readings confirm your power extremely low, your shields buckling. This is your last chance to surrender.
Sulu said: Captain, number four shield just collapsed. Impulse power down to thirty one percent.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura, open a hailing frequency.
Uhura said: Channel open, sir.
Kirk said: This is Captain James Kirk of the United Spaceship Enterprise. May I request your terms for surrender?
Klingon said: No terms. Surrender must be unconditional and immediate.
Kirk said: Scotty, your estimate.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: We're fitting it now, sir, but we'll have to run a few tests to make sure.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Test it in combat.
Scene: Engineering.
Spock said: Captain, these are crude crystals. There is no way to judge what the unusual shapes will do to the energy flow.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Aye, that could blow us up just as effectively as
Kirk said: Let me know when it's in place. Open a hailing frequency.
Uhura said: Hailing frequency open, sir.
Kirk said: This is the Enterprise. Will you guarantee the safety of our passenger, the Dohlman from Elas?
Klingon said: No conditions. Surrender immediately.
Sulu said: Captain, he's starting his run.
Scott said: Scott to Captain.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: It's in place, sir, but I can't answer for what happens.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: You and Spock get up here. Sulu, prepare for warp manoeuvres.
Sulu said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Chekov, arm photon torpedoes.
Chekov said: Photon torpedoes ready.
Sulu said: Warp power to the shields, Captain?
Kirk said: Negative. His sensors will pick up our power increase. The more helpless he thinks we are, the closer he'll come. As he passes, I want to cut in warp drive. We'll pivot at warp two and bring all tubes to bear.
Sulu said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Mister Chekov, give him a full spread of photon torpedoes.
Chekov said: Aye, Captain.
Scott and Spock enter
Sulu said: One hundred thousand kilometres.
Kirk said: Scotty, stand by to cut in warp drive.
Scott said: Fluctuation. It's the shape of the crystals. I was afraid of that.
Sulu said: Seventy five. Seventy. Sixty. Fifty.
Kirk said: Fire at minimum range.
Sulu said: Forty.
Scott said: She won't steady down.
Sulu said: Thirty.
Kirk said: Warp in, Scotty. Full power to shields.
The Klingons fire.
Kirk said: Warp factor two. Bring us to course one four eight mark three.
The Klingons fire again
Kirk said: Chekov, photon torpedoes. Fire!
Chekov said: Aye, sir.
Six torpedoes go, but not all hit the Klingons
Sulu said: Direct hit amidships by photon torpedo.
Spock said: Damage to Klingon number three shield. Number four shield obliterated. Loss of manoeuvre power.
Chekov said: He's badly damaged, Captain. Continuing away at reduced speed.
Kirk said: Secure from general quarters. Well done, Mister Sulu. Scotty.
Elaan said: But I don't understand you. You mean you won't pursue and finish him off?
Kirk said: No. Mister Sulu, resume course for Troyius.
Sulu said: Aye, aye, sir.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk is already there when Petri and Elaan enter, her bodyguards trailing behind
Elaan said: You will not beam down for the ceremony?
Kirk said: No.
Elaan said: I want you to have this as a personal memento. I have learned that on Troyius, they do not wear such things. Remember me.
She hands over her dagger.
Kirk said: I have no choice.
Elaan said: Nor have I. I have only responsibilities and obligations. Goodbye.
Kirk said: Goodbye. Energise.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: (to Spock) It's stabilised now.
McCoy enters
Mccoy said: Spock, I've isolated the biochemical substance of the Elasian tears. It's a kind of an infection, and I think I've found an antidote.
Spock said: You are too late, Doctor. The Captain has found his own antidote.
Mccoy said: Are you out of your Vulcan mind? Do you know how long I've worked on
Spock said: The antidote to a woman of Elas, Doctor, is a starship. The Enterprise infected the Captain long before the Dohlman did.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu, prepare to take us out of orbit.
Mccoy said: Well, I doubt seriously if there's any kind of an antidote for the Enterprise.
Spock said: In this particular instance, Doctor, I agree with you.
Kirk said: Ahead warp factor two.