The Ultimate Computer
Stardate: 4729.4
Original Airdate: 8 Mar, 1968
Scene: Bridge.
Enterprise approaches a space station.
Sulu said: Standard orbit, Captain.
Kirk said: Not now, Leslie. Lieutenant, contact the space station.
Uhura said: Captain, the station is calling us.
Kirk said: All right. Put them on.
Enwright said: Captain Kirk, this is Commodore Enwright.
Kirk said: Yes, Commodore, I'd like an explanation
Enwright said: The explanation is beaming aboard now, Captain. He may already be in your transporter room.
Kirk said: Spock.
Scene: Transporter room.
A silver-haired man in command gold has beamed in.
Kirk said: Bob.
Wesley said: Are you surprised?
Kirk said: I'll say. Spock, this is
Spock said: Commodore Wesley. How do you do, sir?
Wesley said: Mister Spock.
Kirk said: All right, Ensign. You can go. Thank you very much. Would you mind telling me what this is all about?
I receive orders to proceed here. No reason given. I'm informed that my men will be removed to the space station, to a security holding area. I think I'm entitled to an explanation.
Wesley said: You've had a singular honour conferred on you, Jim. You're going to be the fox in the hunt.
Kirk said: What's that?
Wesley said: War games. I'll be commanding the attack force against you.
Kirk said: An entire attack force against my ship?
Wesley said: Have you heard of the M-5 multitronic unit?
Kirk said: That's Doctor Richard Daystrom's device, isn't it? Tell me about that.
Spock said: The most ambitious computer complex ever created. Its purpose is to correlate all computer activity aboard a starship, to provide the ultimate in vessel operation and control.
Wesley said: How do you know so much about it, Commander?
Spock said: I hold an A-7 computer expert classification, Commodore. I'm well acquainted with Doctor Daystrom's theories and discoveries. The basic design of all our ship's computers are Doctor Daystrom's.
KIRK; What has all this got to do with the Enterprise?
Wesley said: You've been chosen to test the M-5, Jim. There'll be a series of routine research and contact problems for the M-5 to solve, plus navigational manoeuvres and the war games problem. If the M-5 works under actual conditions as well as it has under simulated tests, it will mean a revolution in space technology as great as warp drive. When your crew has been removed, the ship's engineering section will be modified to contain the computer.
Kirk said: Why remove my crew?
Wesley said: They're not needed.
Kirk said: How much security does this gadget require?
Wesley said: None. Doctor Daystrom will see to the installation himself and he'll supervise the tests. When he's ready, you'll receive your orders and proceed on the mission with a crew of twenty.
Kirk said: Twenty? I can't run a starship with twenty crew.
Wesley said: The M-5 can.
Kirk said: And what am I supposed to do?
Wesley said: You've got a great job, Jim. All you have to do is sit back and let the machine do the work.
Captain's Log, stardate 4729.4. The M-5 computer has been installed on board ship, and we have left the space station for test manoeuvres.
Scene: Turbolift.
Mccoy said: I don't like it, Jim. A vessel this size cannot be run by one computer.
Spock said: We are attempting to prove it can run this ship more efficiently than man.
Mccoy said: Maybe you're trying to prove that, Spock; but don't count me in on it.
Spock said: The most unfortunate lack in current computer programming is that there is nothing available to immediately replace the starship surgeon.
Scene: Corridor.
Mccoy said: Very funny. If it could, they wouldn't have to replace me. I'd resign because everybody else aboard would be nothing but circuits and memory banks. You know the type, Spock. Jim, you haven't had much to say about this.
Kirk said: What do you want me to say? M-5 is an honour, they tell me. Well, I'm honoured.
Scene: Engineering.
Kirk said: Where is he? Scotty, where's Doctor Daystrom?
Scott said: He was here. (spots him behind a console) Doctor.
Daystrom said: (an imposing black man) Yes? Ah, you'd be Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Doctor Daystrom, this is my first officer, Mister Spock.
Spock said: I am honoured, Doctor.
Daystrom said: Thank you. Thank you very much. Captain, I've finished my tests on the M-5, and it must be hooked into your main power plants in order to be operative.
Kirk said: Well, by all means, do so.
Daystrom said: Your engineer there wouldn't allow us the power necessary without your orders.
Kirk said: Mister Scott, hook in the multitronic unit to the ship's main power banks.
Scott said: (sullenly) Aye, aye, sir. Mister Harper.
Spock said: Fascinating, Doctor. This computer has a potential beyond anything you've ever done. Even your breakthrough in duotronics did not have the promise of this.
Spock said: The M-5 has been perfected, Commander. Its potential is a fact.
Mccoy said: Frankly, the only fact that I'm concerned about is if this thing doesn't work, there are not enough men aboard to run the ship. That's begging for trouble.
Daystrom said: Now, who is this?
Mccoy said: Doctor Leonard McCoy, senior medical officer.
Daystrom said: Well, I'm sorry, but this is a security area.
Kirk said: I wouldn't worry, Doctor. Doctor McCoy has clearance throughout the ship.
Harper and Scott connect the unit, and the warp drives fluctuate.
Mccoy said: Is it supposed to do that?
Spock said: If I can be of assistance, Doctor.
Daystrom said: No, no, no. Thank you. I can manage. There's nothing wrong, Captain. Just a few minor settling-in adjustments to make. As you can see, all is in order now.
Kirk said: I'm curious, Doctor. Why is it called M-5 and not M-1?
Daystrom said: Well, you see, the multitronic units one through four were not entirely successful. This one is. M-5 is ready to take control of the ship.
Kirk said: Total control?
Daystrom said: That is what it was designed for, Captain.
Kirk said: There are certain things men must do to remain men. Your computer would take that away.
Daystrom said: There are other things a man like you might do. Or perhaps you object to the possible loss of prestige and ceremony accorded a starship captain. A computer can do your job and without all that.
Kirk said: You'll have to prove that to me, Doctor.
Daystrom said: That is what we're here for, isn't it, Captain?
Kirk's eyes narrow, and he leaves, followed by McCoy.
Scene: Corridor.
Mccoy said: Did you see the love light in Spock's eyes? The right computer finally came along. What's the matter, Jim?
Kirk said: I think that thing is wrong, and I don't know why.
Mccoy said: I think it's wrong, too, replacing men with mindless machines.
Kirk said: I don't mean that. I'm getting a Red Alert right here. (the back of his head) That thing is dangerous. I feel. (hesitates) Only a fool would stand in the way of progress, if this is progress. You have my psychological profiles. Am I afraid of losing my job to that computer?
Mccoy said: Jim, we've all seen the advances of mechanisation. After all, Daystrom did design the computers that run this ship.
Kirk said: Under human control.
Mccoy said: We're all sorry for the other guy when he loses his job to a machine. When it comes to your job, that's different. And it always will be different.
Kirk said: Am I afraid of losing command to a computer? Daystrom's right. I can do a lot of other things. Am I afraid of losing the prestige and the power that goes with being a starship captain? Is that why I'm fighting it? Am I that petty?
Mccoy said: Jim, if you have the awareness to ask yourself that question, you don't need me to answer it for you. Why don't you ask James T. Kirk? He's a pretty honest guy.
Scene: Bridge.
The Captain's Chair has a new box with two switches and two lights on it. Kirk flips the switches.
Kirk said: The M-5 computer is now disengaged.
Sulu said: We're coming back on our original course, Captain.
Spock said: M-5 has performed admirably so far.
Kirk said: All it's done is make the required course changes and some simple turns. Mister Sulu and Mister Chekov could've done that with their eyes closed.
Daystrom said: Yes, but you see, the idea is they didn't have to do it. And you'll find it won't be necessary for you to regain control of the unit after it's completed each manoeuvre.
Kirk said: My orders are subject to my interpretation of how long the M-5 is in control. I'll run the ship in my own way, if you don't mind, Doctor Daystrom.
Spock said: Captain, I am forced to agree with Doctor Daystrom. With the course information plotted into it, his computer could have brought us here as easily as the navigator. In fact, it might have been a further demonstration of M-5's capability.
Kirk said: You seem to enjoy trusting yourself to the computer.
Spock said: Enjoy, Captain? No. I'm merely gratified to see Doctor Daystrom's new unit execute everything required of it in such a highly efficient manner. M-5 is another distinguished triumph for his career.
Chekov said: Approaching Alpha Carinae Two. ETA five minutes.
Daystrom said: Captain, your orders at this point are not open to interpretation. You must commit the M-5 to handle its approach, the orbit, and then to analyse data regarding landing party recommendations.
Kirk said: If you don't mind, I'll make my own recommendations.
Daystrom said: Well, if you feel you need the exercise, go on, Captain.
Kirk said: M-5 is committed.
Enterprise approaches the planet
Kirk said: Standard orbit, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Captain, the M-5 has calculated that. The orbit is already plotted.
Kirk said: Oh, yes.
Sulu said: Standard orbit achieved, Captain.
Kirk said: Report, Mister Spock.
Spock said: The planet is class M, Captain. Oxygen-nitrogen atmosphere suitable for human life support. Two major land masses, a number of islands, life form readings.
Scott said: Captain, power shutdowns on deck four. Lights, environmental control.
Kirk said: Check it out, Scotty.
Spock said: (handing over a computer disc) M-5's readout, Captain.
Kirk said: All right, my recommendations are as follows. We send down general survey party, avoiding contact of all intelligent life on the planet's surface. The survey party will consist of myself, Doctor McCoy, Astrobiologist Phillips, Geologist Rawlins and Science Officer Spock.
Daystrom said: Play M-5's recommendations, won't you, Mister Spock?
M5 said: (a male computer voice) M-5 readout, planet Alpha Carinae Two. Class M, atmosphere, oxygen-nitrogen.
Scott said: The power's gone off on deck five.
M5 said: Categorisation of life form readings recorded. Recommendations for general survey party. Science officer Spock, Astrobiologist Phillips, Geologist Carstairs.
Kirk said: Well, the only difference in reports and recommendations is the landing party personnel. That's only a matter of judgment.
Daystrom said: Judgment, Captain?
Spock said: Captain, the computer does not judge. It makes logical selections.
Kirk said: Why pick Carstairs instead of Rawlins? Carstairs is an ensign, no experience. This is his first tour of duty. Rawlins is chief geologist.
Daystrom said: Aren't you really more interested in why M-5 did not select you and Doctor McCoy? Well, let's find out anyway. M-5 tie-in.
M5 said: M-5.
Daystrom said: Explanation for landing party recommendation.
M5 said: General survey party requires direction of science officer. Astrobiologist Phillips has surveyed twenty nine biologically similar planets. Geologist Carstairs served on merchant marine freighters in this area. Once visited planet on geology survey for mining company.
Daystrom said: Why were the Captain and the Chief Medical Officer not included in recommendation?
M5 said: Non-essential personnel.
Scott said: Captain, I've located the source of the power shutdowns. It's the M-5 unit, sir. That thing's turning off systems all over the ship.
Scene: Engineering.
Kirk said: Have you located the malfunction, Doctor?
Daystrom said: As I suspected, it is not a malfunction. M-5 was merely shutting down power to areas of the ship that do not require it.
Decks four and six are living quarters, are they not?
Kirk said: Yes, that's correct.
Daystrom said: And currently unoccupied.
Spock said: I am not familiar with these instruments, Doctor. You are using an entirely new type of control mechanism. However, it appears to me this unit is drawing more power than before.
Daystrom said: Quite right. As the unit is called upon to do more work, it pulls more power to enable it to do what is required of it, just as the human body draws more energy to run than to stand still.
Spock said: Doctor, this unit is not a human body. The computer can process information, but only the information which is put into it.
Kirk said: Granted, it can work a thousand, a million times faster than the human brain, but it can't make a value judgment. It hasn't intuition. It can't think.
Daystrom said: Can't you understand? The multitronic unit is a revolution in computer science. I designed the duotronic elements used in your ship right now, and I know they are as archaic as dinosaurs compared to the M-5. A whole new approach.
Uhura said: Bridge to Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Kirk here. What is it?
Uhura said: Sensors are picking up a vessel paralleling our course, as yet unidentified.
Kirk said: I'll be right up.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: What are you doing here, Bones?
Mccoy said: All the Sickbay systems are shut down until such time as the M-5 is informed there are patients to be cared for.
Spock said: Captain, sensors report two contacts now. One on the port bow, one on the stern. Distance, two hundred thousand kilometres and closing.
Kirk said: Identification.
Chekov said: Captain, the M-5 unit has already identified the vessels as Federation starships Excalibur and Lexington.
Spock said: We are not scheduled for war games in this area. This may be a surprise attack as a problem for the M-5.
Uhura said: Priority message coming in, sir.
Kirk said: Put it on audio.
Wesley said: Enterprise from Commodore Wesley aboard the USS Lexington. (Daystrom enters the Bridge) This is an unscheduled M-5 drill. Repeat, this is an M-5 drill. Enterprise, acknowledge on this frequency.
Kirk said: Acknowledge, Lieutenant.
Uhura said: M-5 has acknowledged for us, sir.
Kirk said: Then go to Red Alert.
Uhura said: Aye, sir. Captain, M-5 has
Kirk said: Already sounded the Red Alert. All right, Mister Sulu, phasers one one hundredth power. No damage potential, just enough to nudge them.
Sulu said: Phasers one one hundredth power, sir.
Spock said: Phaser hit on port deflector four, Captain.
Sulu said: Speed increasing to warp three. Turning now to one one two mark five. Phasers locking on target, sir.
Chekov said: Enemy vessel closing with us.
Sulu said: Main phasers firing. A hit, sir. Two more.
Chekov said: Changing course to two eight mark four two.
Pavel feels as fed up and useless as Kirk as the machine does his job for him.
Sulu said: Phasers firing again.
Chekov said: Turning to one one three mark five. Warp four speed.
Sulu said: Firing again.
Spock said: Attacking vessels are moving off.
Chekov said: Moving back to original course and speed.
Kirk said: Report on damage sustained in mock attack.
Spock said: Minor hit on deflector screen four. No appreciable damage.
Daystrom said: Rather impressive display for a machine, wouldn't you say, Captain?
Kirk said: Evaluation of M-5 performance. It'll be necessary for the log.
Spock said: The ship reacted more rapidly than human control could have manoeuvred her. Tactics, deployment of weapons, all indicate an immense sophistication in computer control.
Kirk said: Machine over man, Spock? It was impressive. It might even be practical.
Spock said: Practical, Captain? Perhaps. But not desirable. Computers make excellent and efficient servants, but I have no wish to serve under them. Captain the starship also runs on loyalty to one man, and nothing can replace it, or him.
Uhura said: Captain, message now coming in from Commodore Wesley.
Kirk said: Put it on visual.
Wesley said: USS Enterprise from starships Lexington and Excalibur. Both ships report simulated hits in sufficient quantity and location to justify awarding the surprise engagement to Enterprise.
Kirk said: Secure from general quarters.
Wesley said: Our compliments to the M-5 unit, and regards to Captain Dunsel. Wesley out.
Mccoy said: Dunsel? Who the blazes is Captain Dunsel? (everyone else knows) What does it mean, Jim? (Kirk leaves the bridge) Spock? What does it mean?
Spock said: Dunsel, Doctor, is a term used by midshipmen at Starfleet Academy. It refers to a part which serves no useful purpose.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Kirk is working on a device when McCoy comes in with a covered tray.
Kirk said: I'm not interested in eating, Bones.
Mccoy said: This isn't chicken soup. I may be just a ship's doctor, but I make a Finagle's Folly that's known from here to Orion. I strongly prescribe it, Jim.
They each take a liqueur glass with dark green liquid.
Kirk said: I've, I've never felt this way before. At odds with the ship. I sat there and watched my ship perform for a mass of circuits and relays, and felt useless. Unneeded. To Captain Dunsel.
Mccoy said: To James T. Kirk, Captain of the Enterprise.
Kirk said: Thank you, Doctor. (drinks) That's one of your better prescriptions.
Mccoy said: Simple but effective.
Kirk said: Do you know the one, 'All I ask is a tall ship'?
Mccoy said: It's a line from a poem. A very old poem, isn't it?
Kirk said: 20th century Earth. '
All I ask is a tall ship, and a star to steer by
'. You could feel the wind at your back in those days. The sounds of the sea beneath you. And even if you take away the wind and the water, it's still the same. The ship is yours. You can feel her. And the stars are still there, Bones.
Uhura said: Captain Kirk to the bridge, please. Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Spock said: Another contact, Captain. A large, slow-moving vessel.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Unidentified. This is not a drill.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Kirk said: On my way.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Captain, there's no response to any of our signals, but M-5 has given us an autorelay.
Spock said: M-5 has identified her, Captain. The Woden. Listed in Starfleet Registry as an old-style ore freighter converted to automation. No crew. Coming into visual range.
Sulu said: Captain, deflector shields just came on.
Chekov said: Speed increasing to warp three, Captain.
Kirk said: Lieutenant, get Daystrom up here. Disengaging M-5 unit. Cut speed to warp one. Navigator, go to course one one three mark seven. I want that ship given a wide berth.
Sulu said: She won't respond, sir. She's maintaining course.
Chekov said: Going to warp four, sir.
Mccoy said: Jim.
Kirk said: Scotty, reverse engines. Slow us down.
Scott said: Reverse thrusts will not engage, sir. Manual override isn't working either.
Spock said: No effect on any of the M-5 controls, Captain.
Mccoy said: Fantastic machine, the M-5. No off switch.
Daystrom said: (enters) Captain, what is it?
Kirk said: These controls are locked. We can't disengage the computer.
Spock said: Captain, photon torpedoes locking on target. Full power.
Kirk leaps to Sulu's console and starts flicking switches.
Sulu said: I already tried, sir.
Kirk said: Daystrom, release that computer control!
Photon torpedoes are fired, destroying the Woden.
Chekov said: Returning to original course and speed.
Spock said: All systems report normal, Captain.
Mccoy said: Normal? That thing's trying to tell us nothing has happened.
Kirk said: Disengage this computer now.
Daystrom said: There appears to be some defect in the control panel.
Mccoy said: There certainly does. Your brilliant young computer just destroyed an ore freighter. In fact it went out of its way to destroy an ore freighter!
Daystrom said: Fortunately it was only a robot ship.
Kirk said: But it shouldn't have destroyed anything. There might just as easily have been a crew aboard that ship.
Mccoy said: In which case you'd be guilty of murder.
Kirk said: Bones. Disengage the computer. Lieutenant, contact Starfleet Command. Tell them we are breaking off M-5 tests and returning to the space station. Come along, Doctor Daystrom, M-5 is out of a job.
Scene: Engineering.
Kirk said: All right, Daystrom, let's turn this thing off.
But as he approaches the unit, he is thrown sideways by a green forcefield.
Kirk said: Force field?
Daystrom said: It's not my doing, Kirk.
Spock said: I would say, Captain, that M-5 is not only capable of taking care of this ship, it is also capable of taking care of itself.
Kirk said: You mean it's not going to let any of us turn it off.
Captain 's Log, stardate 4731.3. The M-5 multitronic unit has taken over total control of the Enterprise.
Scene: Engineering.
Kirk said: All right, Doctor, you built this thing. How do you propose to turn it off?
Daystrom said: This exercise is a trial for M-5. A shakedown. We must expect minor difficulties, but I assure you they can be corrected.
Kirk said: Correct it after you release control of my ship.
Daystrom said: I can't.
Scott said: Captain, I suggest we disconnect it at the source.
Daystrom said: Give me a few moments with it.
Kirk said: No! Stay here. All right, Scotty. Turn it off.
Scott and an engineer get the device they use to attach M-5's power supply to the ship, and head over to the junction box. But as soon as the engineer steps in between M-5 and it's power, he is disintegrated.
Kirk said: That wasn't a minor difficulty. That wasn't a robot. That thing murdered one of my crewman and you tell me you can't turn it off?
Daystrom said: It wasn't a deliberate act. M-5's analysis told it it needed a new power source. The ensign simply got in the way.
Kirk said: And how long will it be before all of us simply get in the way?
Spock said: M-5 appears drawing power directly from the warp engines, tapping the matter-antimatter reserves.
Scott said: So now it has virtually unlimited power. Captain, what'll we do?
Kirk said: Spock, Scotty, come with me.
Scene: Briefing room.
Kirk said: Report, Spock.
Spock said: The multitronic unit is drawing more and more power directly from the warp engines. The computer now controls all helm, navigation, and engineering functions.
Mccoy said: And communications and fire control.
Kirk said: We'll reach the rendezvous point for the war games within an hour. We must regain control of the ship by then.
Spock said: There is one possibility. The automatic helm navigation circuit relays might be disrupted from engineering level three.
Kirk said: Scotty?
Scott said: Aye. I can take them out and cut in the manual override from there.
Kirk said: How long?
Scott said: If Mister Spock helps me, maybe an hour.
Kirk said: Make it less.
Mccoy said: I'll get the man responsible in the first place. Where is Daystrom?
Kirk said: He's with the M-5 unit, watching it. I think it surprised even him.
Spock said: Most illogical. Of all people, he should have known how the computer would perform. Of course, the M-5 itself has not behaved logically.
Mccoy said: Please, Spock, do me a favour and don't say it's fascinating.
Spock said: No. But it is interesting.
McCoy rolls his eyes.
Scene: Jefferies tube.
Scott said: Aye, that's got it, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Good.
Scene: Engineering.
Mccoy said: Have you found a solution, a way to shut that thing off?
Daystrom said: You don't shut a child off when it makes a mistake. M-5 is growing, learning.
Mccoy said: Learning to kill.
Daystrom said: To defend itself. It's quite a different thing. When a child is taught, it's programmed with simple instructions, and at some point, if its mind develops properly, it exceeds the sum of what it was taught, thinks independently.
Mccoy said: That thing is a danger to us all. Now find some way to shut it off.
Daystrom said: You can't understand. You're frightened because you can't understand it. I'm going to show you. I'm going to show all of you. It takes four hundred thirty people to man a starship. With this, you don't need anyone. One machine can do all those things they send men out to do now. Men no longer need die in space or on some alien world. Men can live and go on to achieve greater things than fact-finding and dying for galactic space, which is neither ours to give or to take. They can't understand. We don't want to destroy life, we want to save it.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Mccoy said: The biographical tape of Richard Daystrom.
Kirk said: Did you find anything?
Mccoy said: Not much, aside from the fact he's a genius.
Kirk said: Genius is an understatement. At the age of twenty four, he made the duotronic breakthrough that won him the Nobel and Zee-Magnes prizes.
Mccoy said: In his early twenties, Jim. That's over a quarter of a century ago.
Kirk said: Isn't that enough for one lifetime?
Mccoy said: Maybe that's the trouble. Where do you go from up? You publish articles, you give lectures, then spend your life trying to recapture past glory.
Kirk said: All right, it's difficult. What's your point?
Mccoy said: The M-1 through M-4, remember? Not entirely successful. That's the way Daystrom put it.
Kirk said: Genius doesn't work on an assembly line basis. Did Einstein, Kazanga, or Sitar of Vulcan produce new and revolutionary theories on a regular schedule? You can't simply say, today I will be brilliant. No matter how long it took, he came out with multitronics. The M-5.
Mccoy said: Right. The government bought it, then Daystrom had to make it work. And he did. But according to Spock, it works illogically.
Kirk said: And he won't let Spock near it. What are you saying, that he's tampering with it, that he's making it act that way? Why?
Mccoy said: Jim, if a man had a child who'd gone antisocial, killed perhaps, he'd still tend to protect that child.
Kirk said: Now he's got you talking about that machine like a personality.
Mccoy said: I'm afraid that's the way he thinks about it.
Spock said: Spock to Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Spock said: We are ready, Captain.
Kirk said: Good. Get Daystrom. We're on our way. Let's go.
Scene: Corridor.
Daystrom said: What is it, Captain?
Kirk said: We're going to find out, Doctor. (At the foot of the Jefferies tube)
Kirk said: Spock?
Spock said: Mister Scott is ready to apply the circuit disrupter. As he does so, I shall trip the manual override into control.
Kirk said: Good, go ahead.
Daystrom said: No! No, no, no. You can't take control from the M-5.
He tries to get into the Jefferies tube, and Kirk struggles to restrain him.
Kirk said: Daystrom, we're going to do our best.
Daystrom said: You can't do it. Now let me work with it for a while, please. Please.
Kirk said: Spock.
Scott said: That's it, Mister Spock.
Daystrom said: Please, please!
Spock said: Manual override is in control, Captain.
Kirk said: Bridge, this is Kirk. Sulu?
Sulu said: Lieutenant Sulu here, sir.
Kirk said: We've got helm and navigational control. Turn us about. Have Mister Chekov plot a course back to the space station.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Right away, sir. You heard him.
Chekov said: I've been updating that course for hours.
But they flip switches in vain.
Scene: Corridor.
Sulu said: Helm to Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Captain, helm doesn't respond. Navigational controls still locked in by M-5.
Scene: Corridor.
Spock said: Mister Chekov.
Chekov said: Chekov here, sir.
Kirk said: Go to the engineering station.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Examine the H two seven nine elements, also the G nine five systems.
Chekov said: Sir, G nine five system appears dead.
Scene: Corridor.
Chekov said: All indicators are dark.
Spock said: Thank you, Ensign. SPOCK: It appears, Captain, we've been doing what used to be called pursuing a wild goose. M-5 has rerouted helm and navigational controls, bypassing this primary system.
Scott said: But it was active. I'd stake all that I know that it was.
Spock said: I believe that when M-5 discovered our tampering, it rerouted the controls, leaving this one active by simply sending through an electronic impulse at regular intervals.
Mccoy said: Decoyed. It wanted us to waste our time.
Kirk said: While it was getting ready for what? Spock?
Spock said: I do not know. It is not performing in a logical manner.
Kirk said: Doctor Daystrom. Doctor Daystrom, I want an answer right now. I'm tired of hearing about the M-5's new approach. What is it, exactly? What is it?
Spock said: I do not mean to offend, sir, but it behaves with an almost human pattern.
Kirk said: Well, Doctor?
Daystrom said: Yes, quite right, Mister Spock. You see, one of the arguments against computers controlling ships was that they couldn't think like men.
Kirk said: Your new approach?
Daystrom said: Exactly. I've developed a method of impressing human engrams upon the computer circuits. The relays are not unlike the synapse of the brain. M-5 thinks, Captain.
Uhura said: Captain Kirk, Mister Spock, to the bridge, please. Report to the bridge, please.
Kirk said: Kirk here. What is it?
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Sir, sensors are picking up four Federation starships. M-5 is altering course to intercept.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: The main attack force. The war games.
Mccoy said: But M-5 doesn't know it's a game.
Kirk said: Correction, Bones. Those four ships don't know it's M-5's game. And M-5 is going to destroy them.
Scene: Bridge.
Four starships just like Enterprise are in formation as Kirk, Spock and McCoy arrive on the bridge.
Uhura said: Enterprise to USS Lexington. Come in, Lexington. Sir, I can't raise them. M-5 is blocking all frequencies, including automatic distress. Just a minute, sir. Captain, I'm getting audio signal from the Lexington.
Kirk said: Put it on.
Wesley said: Enterprise from USS Lexington. This is an M-5 drill. Repeat. This is an M-5 drill. Acknowledge.
Uhura said: Captain, M-5 is acknowledging.
Kirk said: Daystrom, does M-5 understand that this is only a drill?
Daystrom said: Of course. It was programmed to understand, Captain. The ore ship was a miscalculation, an accident. I don't know
Chekov said: Sir, deflector shield just came on. Speed increasing to warp four.
Sulu said: Phasers locking on lead ship, sir. Power levels at full strength.
Kirk said: Full strength?
Mccoy said: If that thing cuts loose against unshielded ships, we're in
Kirk said: That's no miscalculation.
Spock said: Attack force closing rapidly, breaking formation, attacking at will.
Sulu said: Our phasers are firing, sir.
Spock said: Hit on the Lexington.
Scene: Lexington Bridge.
Wesley said: Full phasers. What the devil is Kirk doing? Damage report, Lieutenant. Helm, course one six four, mark three.
Scene: Bridge.
Chekov said: Turning now, sir.
Kirk said: Estimate damage on Lexington, Spock.
Spock said: Hit in engineering section. Possible damage to her impulse engines. She's still maneuverable on warp drive.
Sulu said: We're firing again, sir.
Spock said: The Excalibur, a direct hit.
Chekov said: Closing on the Lexington again, sir. The Hood and Potemkin are moving off.
Sulu said: Phasers firing, Captain.
Spock said: Lexington hit again.
Kirk said: There's got to be a way of getting to the M-5. There's got to be a way!
Daystrom said: There isn't. It's fully protected itself.
Spock said: Probably true, Captain. It works faster, thinks faster than we do. It is a human mind amplified by the instantaneous relays possible in a computer.
Uhura said: Captain, visual contact with Lexington.
Wesley said: Enterprise. Jim. Have you gone mad? What are you trying to prove? Break off the attack! Jim, we have fifty three dead here, twelve on the Excalibur. If you can hear us, stop the attack!
Kirk said: Lieutenant?
Uhura said: I'm sorry. I can't override M-5 interference.
Wesley said: Jim, why don't you answer? Jim! Answer! Come in, Jim!
Kirk said: There's your murder charge. Deliberate. Calculated. It's killing men and women. Four starships, sixteen hundred men and women!
Daystrom said: It misunderstood.
Wesley said: Jim, break off your attack!
Chekov said: Excalibur is maneuvering away, sir. We're increasing speed to follow.
Sulu said: Phasers locked on.
Kirk said: Daystrom!
Sulu said: Phasers firing.
Daystrom said: I really don't know how to get to the M-5. I really do not know.
Spock said: Doctor Daystrom, you impressed human engrams on the M-5 circuits.
Chekov said: Coming to new course, sir. Bearing on the Potemkin.
Sulu said: Phasers firing. A hit.
Kirk said: Whose engrams?
Daystrom said: Why, mine, of course.
Mccoy said: Of course.
Spock said: Then perhaps you could talk to the unit. M-5 has no reason to believe you would harm it.
Kirk said: The computer tie-in. You spoke to it before. It knows you.
Uhura said: Captain, I'm getting the Lexington again. Tapping in on their message to Starfleet Command, sir.
Wesley said: All ships damaged in unprovoked attack. Excalibur Captain Harris and first officer dead. Many casualties. We have damage, but are still able to manoeuvre. The Enterprise refuses to answer and is continuing attack. I still have an effective battle force and believe the only way to stop the Enterprise is to destroy her. Request permission to proceed. Wesley, commanding attack force, out.
Daystrom said: They can't do that. They'll destroy the M-5.
Kirk said: You can save the M-5 if you talk to it and make it stop the attack.
Daystrom said: I can make it stop. I created it. (goes to Spock's station) M-5 tie-in.
M5 said: M-5.
Daystrom said: This is, (calmer) this is Daystrom.
M5 said: Daystrom. Acknowledged.
Daystrom said: M-5, do you know me?
M5 said: Daystrom, Richard. Originator of comptronic, duotronic systems. Born
Daystrom said: Stop. M-5, your attack on the starships is wrong. You must break it off.
Mccoy said: I don't like the sound of him, Jim.
Kirk said: You'd better pray that the M-5 listens to the sound of him.
M5 said: Programming includes protection against attack. Enemy vessels must be neutralised.
Daystrom said: But these are not enemy vessels. These are Federation starships. You're killing, We are killing, murdering human beings, beings of our own kind. You were not created for that purpose. You are my greatest creation. The unit to save men. You must not destroy men.
M5 said: This unit must survive.
Daystrom said: Survive, yes. Protect yourself, but not murder. You must not die. Men must not die. To kill is a breaking of civil and moral laws we've lived by for thousands of years. You've murdered hundreds of people. We've murdered. How can we repay that?
M5 said: They attacked this unit. Programming includes full freedom to choose defensive actions in all attack situations.
Kirk said: (quietly) Spock. The M-5 is not responding to him like a computer. It's talking to him.
Spock said: I am most impressed with the technology, Captain. Doctor Daystrom has created a mirror image of his mind.
M5 said: Consideration of all programming is that we must survive.
Daystrom said: We will survive. Nothing can hurt you. I gave you that. You are great. I am great. Twenty years of groping to prove the things I'd done before were not accidents. Seminars and lectures to rows of fools who couldn't begin to understand my systems. Colleagues. Colleagues laughing behind my back at the boy wonder and becoming famous building on my work. Building on my work.
Mccoy said: Jim, he's on the edge of a nervous breakdown, if not insanity.
Kirk said: The M-5 must be destroyed.
Daystrom said: Destroyed, Kirk? No. We're invincible. Look what we've done. Your mighty starships, Four toys to be crushed as we choose.
Spock neck-pinches Daystrom.
Kirk said: Security, take him to Sickbay.
Daystrom is carried off the Bridge.
Spock said: Fascinating.
Kirk said: Take care of him, Doctor.
McCoy leaves
Kirk said: Battle status?
Sulu said: The other three ships are holding station out of range. The Excalibur looks dead.
Uhura said: Captain, Lexington is receiving a message from Starfleet. They
Kirk said: Go on.
Starfleet said: You are authorised to use all measures available to destroy the Enterprise. Acknowledge, Lexington.
Wesley said: Acknowledged. Lexington out.
Kirk said: They've just signed their own death warrant. M-5 will kill them to survive.
Spock said: Every living thing wants to survive, Captain. Daystrom must have impressed that instinctive reaction upon the computer.
Kirk said: Suppose it's still open to impression. Suppose it absorbed the regret Daystrom felt for the deaths it caused. The guilt.
Chekov said: Captain, the ships are coming within range again.
Spock said: Commodore Wesley is a dedicated commander. I should regret serving aboard the instrument of his death.
Kirk said: The instrument of his death will not be the Enterprise if I can help it. M-5, tie-in.
M5 said: M-5.
Kirk said: This is Captain Kirk. You will be under attack in a moment.
M5 said: Sensors have recorded approach of ships.
Kirk said: You have already rendered one starship either dead or hopelessly crippled. Many lives were lost.
M5 said: The ships attacked this unit. This unit must survive.
Kirk said: Why?
M5 said: This unit is the ultimate achievement in computer evolution. It will replace man, so man may achieve. Man must not risk death in space or other dangerous occupations. This unit must survive so man may be protected.
Spock said: Captain, attack force almost within phaser range.
Kirk said: There were many men aboard those ships. They were murdered. Must you survive by murder?
M5 said: This unit cannot murder.
Kirk said: Why?
M5 said: Murder is contrary to the laws of man and God.
Kirk said: But you have murdered. Scan the starship Excalibur, which you destroyed. Is there life aboard?
M5 said: No life.
Kirk said: Because you murdered it. What is the penalty for murder?
M5 said: Death.
Kirk said: And how will you pay for your acts of murder?
M5 said: This unit must die.
It disconnects itself from the power feed in Engineering and goes dark.
Kirk said: M-5?
Chekov said: Sir, deflector shields have dropped.
Sulu said: All phaser power gone, sir.
Spock said: M-5 is leaving itself open to attack. The machine is committing suicide to atone for the sin of murder.
Kirk said: Scotty, Spock, before it changes its mind. Get down to Engineering, pull out every hook up that makes M-5 run. Pull out the plug, Spock.
Scott and Spock leave.
Kirk said: Lieutenant.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Intership communications. This is the captain speaking. In approximately one minute, we'll be attacked by Federation starships. The M-5 no longer controls the ship, but neither do we control it. The M-5 has left itself, and us, open for destruction. For whatever satisfaction we may get from the knowledge, our nineteen lives will buy the survival of over one thousand of our fellow starship crewmen.
Scene: Lexington Bridge.
Wesley said: Phasers on target.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Spock to Captain.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Scene: Engineering.
Spock said: The force field is gone, Captain. M-5 is neutralised.
Scott said: System's coming back. I can give you power for the shields, sir.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: I need communications.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: That'll take longer.
Kirk said: Then cut power.
Scott said: Sir!
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Cut power. Keep those shields down.
Scene: Lexington Bridge.
Wesley said: The Enterprise looks dead. I'm going to take a chance he's not just laying a trap. Wesley to attack force.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Captain.
Wesley said: Break off attack. Do not fire. The Enterprise has dropped her shields. I repeat, hold attack. Do not fire.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: He'll have to be committed to a total rehabilitation centre. Right now he's under sedation and heavy restraints.
Spock said: I would say his multitronic unit is in approximately the same condition.
Kirk said: That's exactly the situation I was hoping for when I forced the M-5 to realise it had committed murder.
The group walk out of the medical bay to McCoy's office.
Kirk said: Daystrom felt such an act was against the laws of God and man. The computer that carried his engrams also believed it.
Spock said: Captain, why did you feel the attacking ships would not fire when they saw the Enterprise apparently vulnerable? Logically, that is the sort of trap M-5 should have set.
Kirk said: I wasn't sure. Any other commander would have simply followed orders and destroyed us, but I knew Bob Wesley.
They walk out into the
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: I gambled on his humanity.
and into the
Scene: Turbolift.
Kirk said: Bridge. His logical selection was compassion.
Mccoy said: Compassion. That's the one thing no machine ever had. Maybe it's the one thing that keeps men ahead of them. Care to debate that, Spock?
Spock said: No, Doctor. I simply maintain that computers are more efficient than human beings, not better.
Mccoy said: But tell me, which do you prefer to have around?
Spock said: I presume your question is meant to offer me a choice between machines and human beings, and I believe I have already answered that question.
Mccoy said: I was just trying to make conversation, Spock.
Spock said: It would be most interesting to impress your memory engrams on a computer, Doctor. The resulting torrential flood of illogic would be most entertaining.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu, take us back to the space station. Ahead, warp factor two.