Patterns Of Force
Stardate: 2534.0
Original Airdate: 16 Feb, 1968
Scene: Bridge.
The Enterprise is gliding past a red planet towards a blue one.
Spock said: Passing outer planet, Zeon.
Kirk said: We want the inner one, Ekos. Plot a standard orbit, Mister Chekov, and take us in.
Chekov said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura, raise John Gill on Starfleet communications.
Uhura said: Aye, aye, sir.
Mccoy said: Starfleet's been trying for six months. If he's alive, isn't it unlikely that he'd receive us now?
Kirk said: I don't know, Bones. We're here to find out what's happened because I don't know.
Spock said: I never met John Gill, but I studied Earth history from the text he prepared.
Kirk said: I knew him very well. He was my instructor at the Academy.
Spock said: What impressed me most was his treatment of Earth history as causes and motivations rather than dates and events.
Uhura said: Captain, no response on any Starfleet channel.
Chekov said: Spacecraft approaching from inner planet.
Kirk said: From Ekos?
Spock said: Yes, but it must be a Zeon ship. Zeons do have a crude interplanetary capability. Reaction powered. A small rocket. It is on an intercept course. That would mean it has sophisticated detection devices which neither Zeon nor Ekos should have.
Kirk said: Have you raised anyone, Lieutenant?
Uhura said: Nothing, sir.
Spock said: Captain, it's an unmanned probe which seems to be carrying a warhead.
Kirk said: Stand by phasers.
Chekov said: Phasers ready.
Kirk said: Range, Mister Chekov?
Chekov said: Two thousand kilometres, closing fast.
Kirk said: Fire.
A big ball of fire fills the viewscreen. Fire in a vacuum? Never mind.
Spock said: Fascinating. A thermonuclear warhead.
Mccoy said: That's generations ahead of where these people should be technically. How'd they manage that?
Kirk said: Maybe they had help. Maximum orbit. Take us out of range of their detection range.
Spock said: Most interesting. We were attacked by a thermonuclear missile from a planet which should have no such weapon.
Chekov said: Orbit computed and locked in, sir.
Kirk said: Execute.
Uhura said: Captain, no response from John Gill on any channel.
Mccoy said: He must be dead. And what's going on down there on Ekos?
Spock said: According to our records, the Ekosians are a primitive, warlike people in a state of anarchy. The other planet, Zeon, has a relatively high technology, and its people are peaceful.
Kirk said: We've run into a far more serious problem than the disappearance of John Gill. Spock, you and I will beam down. Bones, one precaution. Prepare a subcutaneous transponder in the event we can't use our communicators.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk and Spock are in local dress - mid/late twentieth century manual worker style including woolly hat to cover Spock's ears.
Kirk said: Insert the transponders. Make one low pass to communication range in three hours. If we fail to make contact at the appointed time, take our co-ordinates from the transponder and beam us aboard no matter what our condition may be.
Scott said: Aye, sir. Whatever your condition.
Kirk said: You ready?
Spock said: Ready, Captain.
Kirk said: Energise.
Scene: Street.
It's very quiet, no people or transport.
Spock said: The Ekosians are humanoid, so there is apt to be a similarity in architecture. Interesting.
A man runs round the corner and trips.
Isak said: Hide! They're right behind me. Hide! Hide!
They do, as three jack-booted soldiers surround the fallen man and kick him.
Yellow said: Zeon pig. On your feet, pig.
They are wearing armbands with - swastikas! on them, Nazi style, not peaceful indian style. Kirk starts to move.
Spock said: Captain, the non-interference Directive.
Yellow said: Hold. Your hands above your head, Zeon. Higher. Keep your hands up so you don't touch anything Ekosian. You swine have defiled us for the last time. But that's now ended. Move!
They march him away.
Kirk said: Unbelievable. Do you recognise those uniforms?
Spock said: Mid-twentieth century Earth. The nation state called Nazi Germany.
A broadcast comes over a screen hung between two columns of a building in the street.
Man said: Attention. Attention. Attention. An announcement from Fuhrer Headquarters. Today, the Fuhrer has ordered our glorious capital to be made Zeon-free. Starting at dawn, our heroic troops have begun flushing out the Zeon monsters who've been poisoning our planet.
Kirk said: How could this have happened? The chances of another planet developing a culture like Nazi Germany, using the forms, the symbols, the uniforms of twentieth century Earth are so fantastically slim.
Spock said: Virtually impossible, Captain, yet the evidence is quite clear.
Man said: The Fuhrer's headquarters reports repulsing an attack by Zeon spacecraft. Our missiles utterly destroyed the enemy.
Kirk said: You look quite well for a man who's been utterly destroyed, Mister Spock.
Crowd said: Sieg heil! Sieg heil!
Man said: At this patriotic demonstration, Deputy Fuhrer Melakon presented the Iron Cross, second class, to Daras, hero of the Fatherland. (a blonde woman) Everywhere, preparations go forward toward the Final Decision, death to Zeon. Long live the Fatherland. Long live the Fuhrer.
The camera swings over to a portrait on the studio wall.
Kirk said: That's John Gill. The Fuhrer?
Spock said: Fascinating.
Soldier said: You, Zeons! What kind of monsters are the Zeons sending against us?
Kirk said: You're right. He's not one of us.
Soldier said: What do you mean?
Kirk said: Look at him.
Kirk karate chops the soldier unconscious and takes his pistol.;
Kirk said: Spock, take his uniform.
Spock said: You propose we pass ourselves off as Nazis, Captain?
Kirk said: If John Gill is the Fuhrer it would seem the logical approach.
Spock said: That's very well taken, Captain.
Scene: Another street.
With Spock in a grey uniform with the obligatory tin helmet.
Kirk said: That helmet covers a multitude of sins.
They are accosted by a man in a dark blue uniform and peaked cap.
Officer said: Lieutenant, what have we here? A Zeon?
Spock said: Yes. Obviously he's not one of us. I captured him. Is that not correct procedure with enemies of the Fatherland?
Officer said: With all Zeon pigs, Lieutenant.
Spock said: Take charge of him.
Officer said: With pleasure. Today we have a surprise planned for you, Zeon.
He steps in front of Spock and gets his neck pinched, of course.
Spock said: Your uniform, Captain.
Kirk said: Yes, it's a shame yours isn't as attractive as mine. Gestapo, I believe.
Spock said: Quite correct. You should make a very convincing Nazi.
Scene: Outside the Chancellery.
Major said: Lieutenant! Have you forgotten how to salute? (Spock salutes.) Your papers.
Kirk said: Your orders, Lieutenant. He wants to see your orders in the jacket. The Lieutenant's a little dazed. He captured several Zeons single-handed. One of the pigs struck him before he dropped. I promise you that pig will never get up again.
Major said: Good work, Lieutenant.
Kirk said: Hail the Fuhrer.
Major said: Hail to the Fuhrer.
Kirk said: This is a day to remember, Major.
Major said: Lieutenant? Better see a doctor. You don't look well. Your colour.
Spock said: Yes. I shall tend to it, Major.
Major said: Lieutenant! Your helmet. Remove it.
Kirk said: We have urgent business with the Fuhrer.
Major said: Lieutenant, remove your helmet.
The guards at the doorway point their guns at Spock's head, so he takes off the helmet and gives the Major a Look.
Scene: Interrogation room.
Kirk and Spock are being whipped, but they are not flinching despite the weals and blood on their skin. Green blood in Spock's case. The man from the street is watching from his cell.
Major said: Enough. do you wish to speak now? Tell me your orders! You were sent to kill our Fuhrer. Confess! Do you want some more persuasion?
Kirk said: You're making this a rather one-sided conversation, Major.
Major said: Do not joke with me, Zeon pig. Who is this alien? Things might go easier if you tell me about him.
Kirk said: Let me speak to your Fuhrer. I'll tell him everything he wants to know.
Major said: You'll be glad to talk to me before I'm through.
Eneg said: Major.
Major said: Ah, Chairman Eneg. Your Excellency, I am honoured. I've been interrogating these spies, captured in
Eneg said: I've had a full report. You are not from Zeon.
Spock said: Obviously.
Eneg said: Where do you come from?
Kirk said: I'll explain when I see the Fuhrer.
Eneg said: What is your business with the Fuhrer?
Kirk said: I'll discuss that only with him.
Major said: Pig! You're speaking to the Chairman of the Party.
Eneg said: That's enough, Major. What were the weapons found on you? What design? Our famous SS laboratories have been unable to discover how the weapons work.
Major said: Excellency, give me a few minutes with them. I promise you, I'll have
Eneg said: You've had a few minutes without result. The trouble with you SS is that you don't realise that punishment becomes ineffective after a certain point. Men become insensitive.
Major said: Yes, Excellency.
Eneg said: Lock them up. Let their pain argue with them. Then I will question them.
Major said: Excellency, the standing order is to interrogate and execute. The interrogation is finished, therefore
Eneg said: Finished? What have you learned? Hold them for an hour.
Major said: Excellency, the order
Eneg said: That is my order, Major. I suggest you do not disobey it.
Major said: Yes, Excellency. (Eneg leaves) All right, pigs. I shall keep my eye on the clock. When the hour is up, you will die most unpleasantly, I promise you! Lock them up.
They are put into the cell next to the man from the street.
Scene: Cell.
Kirk said: John Gill was the kindest, gentlest man I ever knew. For him to be a Nazi is impossible.
As soon as the Nazis have left the room, the other man comes over to the adjoining bars.
Isak said: Why did they take you? You're not a Zeon. He certainly is not one.
Why do the Nazis treat you as enemies?
Spock said: Why do the Nazis hate Zeons?
Isak said: Why? Because without us to hate, there'd be nothing to hold them together. So the Party has built us into a threat, a disease to be wiped out.
Spock said: Is Zeon a threat to them?
Isak said: Where did you come from? Our warlike period ended dozens of generations ago. We came here. We thought we were civilising the Ekosians.
Spock said: It would seem the assumption was premature.
Kirk said: Were they like this when you first came?
Isak said: Warlike, yes, but not vicious. That started when the Nazi movement began only a few years ago.
Spock said: That would coincide with the time of John Gill's arrival.
Isak said: When they've destroyed us here, they will attack our planet. They'll use the technology we gave them. The danger is that taking life is so repugnant to our people, I'm afraid we'll go down without a struggle. But after what I saw in the street today, I think I could kill.
Kirk said: Do you know the plan of this building?
Isak said: Why?
Kirk said: If we can get to the SS weapons laboratory, get our weapons back, we might be able to stop the slaughter.
Isak said: Why should you be interested in saving Zeons?
Kirk said: We must get our communicators, contact the ship.
Spock said: Captain, the flaw in the plan is this locked door, and the guard beyond it. To the logical mind, the outlook is somewhat gloomy.
Kirk said: The transponders.
Spock said: Yes.
Kirk said: And a way to shed some light on the gloom, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Of course. The rubindium crystals in the transponders.
Kirk pulls a metal strip from the bed in the cell, and Spock uses it to cut into Kirk's arm.
Isak said: Are you trying to kill yourselves?
Spock gets Kirk's transponder out, then Kirk tries to extract Spock's.
Kirk said: I know it's there. McCoy put it in. There. Do you have the figures computed?
Spock said: Yes. We must hold the crystals rigidly at a specific distance, which I believe should be twenty seven point two millimetres.
He bends the metal strip accordingly.
Spock said: Twenty seven point two millimetres would be, approximately, there. That is, of course, a crude estimation.
Isak said: What is it you're making, some kind of radio?
Kirk said: No, not a radio. The power from this light is very low.
Spock said: Yes. To reach that light, I shall require some sort of platform.
Kirk said: I would be honoured, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Now, the rubindium crystals should find enough power here to achieve the necessary stimulus. As I recall from the history of physics, the ancient lasers were able to achieve the necessary excitation, even using crude natural crystals.
Kirk squats down and Spock eventually stands on his thighs, leaning against the well-injured back.
Kirk said: Oh, Mister Spock, the guard did a professional job on my back. I'd appreciate it if you'd hurry.
Spock said: Yes, of course, Captain. You realise that the aim will of course be very crude.
Kirk said: (in pain) I don't care if you hit the broad side of a barn. Just hurry, please.
Spock said: Captain, why should I aim at such a structure?
Kirk said: Never mind, Spock. Just get on with the job.
With the crystals presumably in the holes where the strip was fastened to the bed frame, Spock holds it up to the light bulb and directs a beam of coherent light at the door lock, burning through it.
Kirk said: Oh, my goodness. Beautiful. Oh, Spock Spock! (Spock gets down) Beautiful. Over there. I'll create a commotion.
Spock goes to hide behind the door to the room
Kirk said: Help! Help! I'll talk! I'll talk! I can't stand it anymore! I'll talk! Guard! Guard, I'll talk!
A guard enters.
Kirk said: Guard, I'll talk. I'll talk. The pain
Spock neck-pinches the guard. They start to undress him.
Isak said: Take me with you. Give me a chance to fight them.
Spock said: May I remind you, we did not intend to fight.
Isak said: Take me with you, or you'll never find the laboratory.
Kirk said: Take him with us, Mister Spock. He's got a point. He's our guide.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk is in the uniform, escorting an unshackled Isak and Spock.
Kirk said: Which is the laboratory door?
Isak said: The end of the hall.
The door labeled Authorised Personnel only, not Fire Stairs only. A Nazi comes out of the room and locks the door.
Kirk said: All right, Zeon pigs, move. (He stumbles against the Nazi.) Zeon pigs. They do nothing right. Don't worry. They're on their way to the laboratory, for experimental work. They'll pay. Move!
Kirk has picked the keys from the Nazi's pocket.
Kirk said: Move, move.
Scene: Laboratory.
Kirk said: (giving the pistol to Isak) Cover the door.
Spock and Kirk search for their equipment.;
Kirk said: Here they are. The communicators, disassembled. Can you get one to work?
Spock said: Possibly.
Isak said: Who are you people?
KIRK; The phasers?
Spock said: I do not see them.
Isak said: Where do you come from?
Meanwhile, the Nazi realises his pocket has been picked and returns, weapon drawn.
Kirk said: (reading a clipboard) The alien pistols have been sent to Gestapo Command Headquarters. Well, that takes care of the phasers.
The Nazi walks back in, and Isak pistol-whips him.
Kirk said: You Zeons, for peaceful people, are pretty thorough.
Isak said: Yes. With this uniform, we can steal a car, get out of the capital.
Kirk said: We came for John Gill.
Spock said: Captain, without phasers, and until we are able to communicate with the ship, it is illogical to assume that we can hold out against the entire military force of this planet.
Kirk said: All right, Mister Spock. You've made your point. Get into the uniform and hide those ears again.
Scene: Street.
Kirk and Spock are carrying a stretcher out of the doors. The brass plaque says Service Entrance.
Kirk said: Hunting's good. We've caught so many Zeons, we've got to dump them outside.
Scene: Zeon hiding-place.
Down a manhole, down a ladder, along a tunnel into a cave.
Davod said: Who's with you?
Isak said: It's all right. They helped me escape from the prison. I owe them my life.
Abrom said: Isak, what is all this?
Isak said: Abrom! Abrom, thank God you're well. This is my brother. They were in the prison. Beaten as I was, Abrom.
Abrom said: Why were you in their prison?
Kirk said: I was trying to see the Fuhrer.
Abrom said: The Fuhrer?
Kirk said: If I can see him, there may be a way of stopping this insanity.
Isak said: Abrom, I owe them my life.
Abrom said: Isak, Uletta is dead. Shot down in the streets.
Isak said: She would've been my wife.
Abrom said: She lived for five hours while they walked past her and spat on her. Our own people were unable to help her. Now you ask me to help strangers.
Isak said: If we adopt the ways of the Nazis, we're as bad as the Nazis.
Spock said: Captain, I suggest the most profitable use of our time would be to reassemble our communicators. May I work undisturbed somewhere?
Abrom said: This way.
Scene: A side chamber.
A barrel is Spock's work table.
Spock said: By using parts from both, I've completed one communicator. I do not know if the circuits are correct, Captain. There is no way to test it, except in actual use.
Kirk said: The Enterprise won't be within range for another hour.
A Nazi with a machine gun comes in. Abrom, Davod, Isak and others are being herded at gunpoint by the young woman from the news broadcast.
Daras said: Over there. Against the wall, all of you.
Kirk said: The girl on the viewscreen.
Spock said: The one receiving a medal.
Kirk said: Daras.
Daras said: Quiet. Hands in the air, Zeon swine. So you're the three who escaped from the Chancellery detention centre. What was your plan? Speak. It's the last chance you'll get.
Kirk said: I must see the Fuhrer. It's urgent.
Daras said: Urgent? I'll bet it is.
Abrom said: I alone am responsible for what happens here.
Daras said: Do you know what we do to responsible Zeons?
She shoots Abrom, and Kirk grabs for her gun, but is pushed off by the guard.
Daras said: Now we finish the job.
She puts her pistol to Kirk's head.
Isak said: Stop, Nazis. After you've killed the last of us off, what do you do, turn the guns against yourselves?
Kirk uses the distraction to take Daras' pistol and use her as a shield.
Isak said: Don't shoot. Don't shoot, please.
Abrom said: No, wait. (gets up) No more. You've proved they're on our side.
Isak said: Now, please forgive us, but we had to be absolutely certain.
Abrom said: Yes. If we had taken you into our confidence, we could've betrayed all our people if you'd been Nazi spies. All right, leave us.
Isak said: The Gestapo methods are frighteningly efficient. We must be very, very careful in order to survive here. We of the Underground don't know who our leaders are. That way, if we break under pressure, we can only betray a handful of our people.
Spock said: This young lady is a Nazi, a hero of the Fatherland. We saw her being decorated.
Daras said: I'm an Ekosian fighting the terrible thing that's happened to my people. The decoration was for betraying my own father to the Party. It was my father's idea. You see, he used to be very close to the Fuhrer. Then he saw the changes and where they were leading. He turned against the Party. They imprisoned him. Melakon sentenced him to death.
Kirk said: Melakon?
Abrom said: The Deputy Fuhrer. He's taken over.
Daras said: My father denounced me, making it appear like I'd betrayed him. He gave me a weapon to continue the fight with.
Kirk said: How could this have seemed right to John Gill?
Abrom said: Who?
Kirk said: John Gill, your Fuhrer. He's one of our people.
Abrom said: And what is your people?
Kirk said: I'm Captain James Kirk of the United Spaceship Enterprise. This is my first officer, Mister Spock. John Gill, your Fuhrer, was sent here by the Federation as a cultural observer.
Daras said: You mean that the Fuhrer is an alien?
Spock said: That is correct.
Daras said: I grew up to admire him, later to hate and despise everything he stands for. But I always thought he was one of us. Now to hear that he's an alien sent here to destroy us
Kirk said: That was not his mission, ever. He was sent here to observe, not to interfere. Something went wrong, and that's why we're here. To find out and to correct. We must see him.
Isak said: It's impossible. Even if this were another time, it still would be impossible. He sees no one. No one but Melakon. He's under maximum security.
Kirk said: Maximum security. Is he so afraid?
Isak said: There are many of us, both Ekosians and younger Zeons, who would gladly risk our lives to kill him.
Kirk said: I don't understand what's going on here. This goes against every principle that John Gill ever believed in. Our only chance is to see him, and quickly.
Daras said: He makes a speech tonight from the Chancellery. All the top Party officials will be there.
Kirk said: Will you be there?
Daras said: Of course. As a symbol of the proper attitude toward the Fatherland.
Spock said: As an honoured member of the Party, she could get us past the guards.
Daras said: Only the top, most trusted, officials will be allowed in. The country will watch on the viewscreens.
Isak said: I'm afraid it will be a formal declaration of war against Zeon. Their Final Solution.
Kirk said: You must get us in there.
Daras said: It would be suicide.
Isak said: Well it's a risk living at all the way things are going. If the Captain believes he has a chance, I'm willing to commit suicide with him.
Daras said: You, a Zeon? You expect to get into the Chancellery?
Isak said: It's even more my fight than yours.
Scene: Chancellery entrance.
A car pulls up and this time Kirk and Spock, and Isak, are in black uniforms. They are a film crew.
Kirk said: Lights.
The hand held floodlight blinds the guards.
Guard said: You, what is your business here?
A second car arrives and Kirk turns his camera on it.
Kirk said: Get me some lights on her.
Guard said: It's Party Secretary Daras.
Daras said: (marching into the building.) The Fuhrer's special documentary corps. Smile, Corporal.
Kirk said: Excuse me.
Scene: Corridor.
Spock said: Captain, I'm beginning to understand why you Earthmen enjoy gambling. No matter how carefully one computes the odds of success, there is still a certain exhilaration in the risk.
Kirk said: Very good, Spock. We may make a human of you yet.
SPOCK; I hope not.
Kirk said: Let's go.
Scene: Entrance to Main room.
There's a bit of a party going on before the speech.
Kirk said: Lights. (he films Eneg leaving) Thank you. Where does the Fuhrer enter?
Daras said: He doesn't. They watch him on the big screen. There, at the end of the room. He broadcasts from the booth for security.
Kirk said: They've got the booth curtained off. Bring that light to the side of her face. Where's the entrance to the broadcast booth?
Daras said: There, at the end of the corridor. You're not going to try to get into the broadcast booth.
Kirk said: We're going to try.
Isak said: Sir, is this light better here?
Kirk said: Good.
Isak said: If you distract the guard long enough, I can get a machine gun. It's a small booth, I could shoot through the door.
Kirk said: We're here to get John Gill, and alive, not for your personal satisfaction. Is that clear? Let's try down there.
They go down the corridor
Scene: Outside the booth.
Kirk said: Lights, please. Gentlemen, this is for the record of the Fuhrer's Final Solution speech.
Daras said: We're documenting the men responsible for
Through a small window in the door, Spock sees Gill being wheeled into place. He is motionless.;
Kirk said: Smile, gentlemen. There will be more coverage later. Thank you very much. Let's get a moving shot down the hall.
Scene: Corridor.
Isak said: So, what have we accomplished? You should have let me shoot him.
Spock said: Captain, it was John Gill, but he never moved. Never once looked up.
Kirk said: Yes, well, that may be part of the plan, the semi-divine detachment.
Spock said: Or a deep psychosis.
Kirk said: It may be simpler than that. He may be drugged. We need McCoy. Is there a place, a room we can be alone for a few minutes? I'm going to send for help.
Daras said: Send for?
Kirk said: It takes too long to explain. Any place will do.
Isak said: The cloakroom?
Scene: Cloakroom.
In amongst the hangars full of uniforms, Spock fiddles with his home-made communicator.
Spock said: It may not have the range it had. In fact, it may not work at all.
Kirk said: Think positively, Spock.
Spock said: Spock to Enterprise. Spock to Enterprise. Come in, Enterprise.
Uhura said: Enterprise. Lieutenant Uhura.
Kirk said: Captain here. Put McCoy on.
Uhura said: Yes, sir. Captain, we're not reading you well. You're nine points into the low-frequency band.
Kirk said: We've having difficulty. Patch historical computer into uniform section. I want McCoy outfitted as a Gestapo doctor Nazi Germany, old Earth date 1944. Make him a colonel.
Uhura said: Yes, sir.
Scene: Main room.
Isak is socialising.
Eneg said: Search the building.
Isak gets Daras and takes her out of the room
Scene: Cloakroom.
Mccoy said: What have you got, Jim?
Kirk said: We found John Gill. At least, we've seen him. He may be drugged, hypnotised, or psychotic. You'll have to make a determination. Hurry with that uniform.
Daras enters.
Kirk said: What is it?
Daras said: Isak just heard two security men. They picked up your broadcast, pin-pointed it within this building. They're starting to search.
Spock said: If there's going to be a delay in transporting the doctor, I suggest we cancel our
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise. What's happening up there?
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Doctor McCoy is having difficulty with that uniform, sir.
Scene: Cloakroom.
Kirk said: Send him down naked if you have to. Kirk out.
McCoy is beamed down still trying to put a boot on.
Daras said: It's true. I only half-believed what you said.
Mccoy said: Stupid computer made a mistake in the measurements. The right boot's too tight.
Spock said: There is a logical way to proceed, Doctor. Point your toe, apply equal pressure to either side of the boot, and push. We have no time for emotionalism.
Kirk said: This is Doctor McCoy, our Chief Medical Officer. Daras, secretary to the National Socialist Party.
Mccoy said: How do you do? What in blazes is this?
Eneg and two guards enter.
Daras said: Chairman Eneg.
Kirk said: The Colonel is drunk. He's had a little too much to drink.
Eneg said: I see.
Kirk said: Yes, he thought he would embarrass the Fuhrer.
Spock said: Yes. A doctor should have more pride.
Eneg said: You were right to conceal him. There's a spy in this building with a secret transmitter. We're conducting a search. Hail the Fuhrer.
All said: Hail the Fuhrer.
Eneg and guards leave.
Spock said: Captain, I do not understand how he failed to recognise us.
Kirk said: Nor do I, but luck is something you also fail to recognise, Mister Spock.
Spock said: True. I shall reconsider.
A buzzer sounds.
Daras said: The Fuhrer's speech.
Kirk said: Let's go.
Scene: Main room.
The curtain is pulled aside so Gill can be seen on the screen, but his mouth is hidden behind the large microphone. All the people salute him.
All said: Hail the Fuhrer! Hail the Fuhrer! Hail the Fuhrer! Hail the Fuhrer!;
Gill said: Ekosians. The job ahead is difficult. It requires courage and dedication. It requires faith. The Zeon colony has existed for nearly half a century.
Kirk said: Watch his mouth.
Gill said: If we fulfill our own greatness, that will all be ended. Working together
Spock said: Captain, the speech follows no logical pattern.
Kirk said: Random sentences strung together.
Gill said: Will at times be difficult.
Mccoy said: He looks drugged, Jim. Almost at a cataleptic state.
Gill said: To reach our goal, And we will reach that goal.
Wild applause.
Mccoy said: I have to have a close look at him.
Gill said: must be decisive. Every thought directed toward a goal. This planet can become a paradise, if we are willing to pay the price. As each cell in the body works with discipline and harmony for the good of the entire being
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: (to guards) Gentlemen, I want a picture of you two with the Hero of the Fatherland listening to the stirring Fuhrer's speech. Get that light over there, please. Get this light around here. Smile, gentlemen. Turn around, smile, and now.
Neck pinch and strangle hold dispose of the guards.
Kirk said: It's locked. Keys.
Scene: Main room.
All said: Hail the Fuhrer!
Melakon said: Hail the Fuhrer!
All said: Hail the Fuhrer!
Melakon said: The Fuhrer has given us our orders, and we pledge him our lives in this sacred task. Death to Zeon!
All said: Death to Zeon! Death to Zeon!
Scene: Broadcast booth.
All said: Death to Zeon! Death to Zeon!
Mccoy said: Definitely drugged, almost comatose.
Spock said: What drug?
Mccoy said: I can't identify it without a medi-comp. Without knowing, an antidote would be dangerous.
Kirk said: Is there anything you do?
Mccoy said: I can give him a general stimulant, but it would be risky.
Kirk said: Take the risk.
Melakon said: But despite our best efforts, they remain like a cancer, eating away at our state.
Isak said: There's no reaction. Whatever you gave him isn't working.
Kirk said: Bones, increase the dosage.
Mccoy said: I'm working in the dark. I could kill him.
Daras said: If they find us here, we'll all be killed.
Scene: Main room.
Melakon said: Ten minutes ago, on our Fuhrer's orders, our troops began their historic mission.
Scene: Broadcast booth.
Melakon said: In the cities, the eliminations have started. Within an hour, the Zeon blight will forever be removed from Ekos.
Daras said: It's begun. It's finally begun.
Mccoy said: The stimulant's working.
Melakon said: I now announce the glorious final solution.
Mccoy said: He's reaching a level of consciousness. It's almost like he's in a light sleep. Now, that's as much as I dare do.
Melakon said: Our entire solar system will forever be rid of the disease that was Zeon.
Kirk said: Spock, try to get through to him with a mind probe. If you can't, Bones, you'll have to use a stronger stimulant, no matter what it does.
Melakon said: Our space fleet is on its way toward Zeon, both manned and unmanned weapons.
Scene: Main room.
Melakon said: This is the time of destiny. Hail victory!
All said: Hail victory! Hail victory! Hail victory!
Scene: Broadcast booth.
ALL [OC] Hail victory!
Daras said: There's one chance left. If you'd use the weapons you have, you could destroy the fleet.
Kirk said: That would mean the death of thousands of Ekosian spacemen.
Isak said: Many of my friends are aboard that ship, many of the Underground.
Daras said: Yes, but against those thousands are millions of innocent Zeon lives. You've got to choose the lesser of two evils.
Kirk said: We could save Zeon, but what about Ekos?
Spock said: Captain. I have created a condition in which Gill cannot initiate speech or any other action, but he can reply to questions.
Kirk said: Well done, Spock. They've kept what's left of him as a figure head.
Spock said: Quite correct. For the last few years, the real power has been Melakon.
Kirk said: Gill. Gill, why did you abandon your mission? Why did you interfere with this culture?
Gill said: Planet fragmented. Divided. Took lesson from Earth history.
Kirk said: But why Nazi Germany? You studied history. You knew what the Nazis were.
Gill said: Most efficient state Earth ever knew.
Spock said: Quite true, Captain. That tiny country, beaten, bankrupt, defeated, rose in a few years to stand only one step away from global domination.
Kirk said: But it was brutal, perverted, had to be destroyed at a terrible cost. Why that example?
Spock said: Perhaps Gill felt that such a state, run benignly, could accomplish its efficiency without sadism.
Kirk said: Why, Gill? Why?
Gill said: Worked. At first it worked. Then Melakon began take over. Used the. Gave me the drug.
Kirk said: Gill. Gill. Gill, can you hear me? You've got to tell those people what happened! You're the only one who can prevent the slaughter! Gill!
Mccoy said: He's still alive, but the drug they use is too strong. If I give him another shot
Kirk said: Bones, give him another shot!
Mccoy said: I don't dare.
Isak said: (watching the door) Guards.
Kirk said: We've run out of time, Bones. No, wait. (to Daras, with a rifle) Aim it at Spock. Spock, take off the helmet.
Eneg and guards enter
Isak said: For the second time in one day, Daras is a hero to the Fatherland.
Kirk said: She captured a Zeon spy that was attempting to assassinate the Fuhrer.
Eneg said: Guards.
Isak said: Yes, let us make an example of this traitor once and for all.
Kirk said: We'll make a present of him to Melakon.
Isak said: Chairman Eneg, this spy must be taken to Melakon.
Eneg said: Pass them on my responsibility.
The guards leave with Spock and Eneg follows.
Isak said: Eneg is one of us.
Kirk said: Stay close to Spock. Stall for time. And hope.
(They leave him alone with Gill.
Scene: Main room.
Melakon said: What is this?
Isak said: A spy, Excellency.
Daras said: A rare prize. The Deputy Fuhrer can see this is no ordinary Zeon.
Melakon said: No, not a Zeon, definitely not.
Scene: Broadcast booth.
Kirk gives Gill another injection.
Kirk said: Professor Gill, can you hear me? You've got to speak. You've got to speak. This is our last chance. Gill?
Scene: Main room.
Daras said: The Deputy Fuhrer's an authority on the genetics of racial purity. How would you classify this one?
Melakon said: Very difficult. Note the sinister eyes and the malformed ears. Definitely an inferior race.
Scene: Broadcast booth.
Kirk tries slapping Gill to wake him up.
Kirk said: Professor. Professor! You've got to talk! You've got to tell them what happened. You've got to come out of it. Come on, Professor. Come on. Come on.
Scene: Main room.
Melakon said: Note the low forehead, denoting stupidity. The dull look of a trapped animal. You may take him now for interrogation, but I want the body saved for the Cultural Museum. He'll make an interesting display.
The viewscreen comes alive, and Gill is speaking for himself.
Gill said: People. People of Ekos.
Melakon said: Go to the booth. See to the Fuhrer at once. He's ill. Turn off that camera.
Gill said: Hear me.
Melakon said: I suggest we leave and let our Fuhrer rest.
Gill said: We were betrayed by a self-seeking adventurer who has led us all to the very brink of disaster. I order the immediate recall of the space fleet. This attack must stop. All units are to return to base. To Zeon I promise, this was not an aggression of Ekosian people.
Scene: Broadcast booth.
Gill said: Only one evil man. Melakon
Scene: Main room.
Gill said: Is a traitor to his own people and all that we stand for. To the Zeon people, I promise reparation and
Melakon grabs a machine gun and fires at the curtained window of the broadcast booth. Isak shoots Melakon and Eneg intervenes when a solder points his weapon at Isak.
Eneg said: Wait, soldier. There's been enough killing. Now we'll start to live the way the Fuhrer meant us to live.
Scene: Broadcast booth.
Gill said: (shot and dying in Kirk's arms) I was wrong. The non-interference Directive is the only way. We must stop the slaughter.
Kirk said: You did that, Professor. You told them in time.
Gill said: Even historians fail to learn from history. They repeat the same mistakes. Let the killing end. Let (dies)
Spock knocks on the door to be let in.
Spock said: Is he dead, Captain?
Kirk said: Dead.
Isak said: For so long I've prayed for this. Now I'm sorry.
Kirk said: So is he.
Isak said: You've given us all a new chance.
Eneg said: Thank you, but go now. We must do the rest.
Daras said: Eneg and I will go on the air, offer a new way for our people. For all our people, both Zeons and Ekosians.
Eneg said: It is time to stop the bloodshed, to bury our dead.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, I think the planet is in good hands.
Spock said: Indeed, Captain. With the union of two cultures, this system would make a fine addition to the Federation.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise.
Uhura said: Enterprise here, Captain.
Kirk said: Beam us aboard.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Captain, I never will understand humans. How could a man as brilliant, a mind as logical as John Gill's, have made such a fatal error?
Kirk said: He drew the wrong conclusion from history. The problem with the Nazis wasn't simply that their leaders were evil, psychotic men. They were, but the main problem, I think, was the leader principle.
Mccoy said: What he's saying, Spock, is that a man who holds that much power, even with the best intentions, just can't resist the urge to play God.
Spock said: Thank you, Doctor. I was able to gather the meaning.
Mccoy said: It also proves another Earth saying. Absolute power corrupts absolutely. Darn clever, these Earthmen, wouldn't you say?
Spock said: Yes. Earthmen like Ramses, Alexander, Caesar, Napoleon, Hitler, Lee Kuan. Your whole Earth history is made up of men seeking absolute power.
Mccoy said: Spock, you obviously don't understand
Spock said: Obviously, Doctor, you fail to accept
Kirk said: Gentlemen. Gentlemen, we've just been through one civil war. Let's not start another. Mister Chekov, take us out of orbit. Warp factor two, and hurry.