By Any Other Name
Stardate: 4657.5
Original Airdate: 23 Feb, 1968
Scene: Planet surface.
A landing party of Kirk, Spock, McCoy, Yeoman Thompson and a security guard have just beamed down.
Spock said: No life form readings, Captain. Continuing scan.
Mccoy said: Well, somebody sent a distress call.
Kirk said: No sign of the spaceship. No sign of debris.
Spock said: I am getting readings on small metallic objects, Captain. It is possible the ship was destroyed in space and the survivors proceeded here in a shuttle craft.
Kirk said: But where are they?
Thompson said: Captain, I'm getting a reading now. Two human forms at bearing three hundred mark seven.
Spock said: Confirmed.
A male in an orange suit and a female in a blue outfit approach the party.
Kirk said: I'm Captain James T. Kirk, of the starship Enterprise. We came in answer to your distress call.
Rojan said: It was very kind of you to respond so quickly, captain. Now you will surrender your ship to me.
Kirk said: You have a very strange sense of humour, Mister
The man presses a button on his belt, and Kirk, Spock and McCoy are immobilised. The woman does the same to the Yeoman and guard.
Rojan said: I am Rojan of Kelva. I am your commander from this moment on. Any efforts to resist us or to escape will be severely punished. Soon we, and you, will leave this galaxy forever. You humans must face the end of your existence as you have known it. You are all paralyzed by a selective field that neutralises nerve impulses to the voluntary muscles. We can control you at will. I will now release you.
Kirk said: Stay there.
Thompson said: Captain.
Kirk said: It's all right.
Spock said: Interesting. A neural field?
Rojan said: Yes. Radiating from a central projector.
Kirk said: What do you want?
Rojan said: Your ship, Captain Kirk. It will serve us well in the long voyage that is to come.
Kirk said: Voyage? Where?
Rojan said: To your neighbouring galaxy, which you call Andromeda.
Kirk said: Andromeda? Why?
Rojan said: It is our home.
Spock said: What brings you here?
Rojan said: Within ten millennia, high radiation levels in our galaxy will make life there impossible. So the Kelvan Empire sent forth ships to explore other galaxies, to search for one which our race could conquer and occupy.
Kirk said: Well, sorry. This galaxy is already occupied.
Rojan said: Captain, you think you are unconquerable and your ship impregnable, but while we've talked, the capture has already begun.
Scene: Bridge.
Chekov said: Something penetrating from the planet.
Scott said: Increase power to shields.
Another male in a purple jumpsuit appears in Engineering and immobilises the crew there.
Chekov said: It's dead, sir. All major power disabled.
Scott said: Sound Red Alert.
Uhura said: Red Alert. All personnel, man your battle stations. Go to Red Alert.
A woman in a mustard coloured outfit takes over Life Support.
Scott said: Engineering, come in.
Uhura said: Life support, come in.
Then a man in brown immobilises the bridge crew.
Hanar said: Drea, Tomar, report.
Scene: Life support.
Drea said: Life support control, secure.
Scene: Engineering.
Tomar said: Engineering is secure.
Scene: Bridge.
Hanar said: Rojan, Hanar here.
Scene: Planet surface.
Rojan said: Report, Hanar.
Hanar said: The ship is ours. We control the bridge, engineering, and life support systems.
Rojan said: Proceed with your orders.
Kirk said: What's the point of capturing my ship? Even at maximum warp, the Enterprise couldn't get to Andromeda galaxy for thousands of years.
Rojan said: Captain, we will modify its engines, in order to produce velocities far beyond the reach of your science. The journey between galaxies will take less than three hundred of your years.
Spock Fascinating. Intergalactic travel requiring only three hundred years. That is a leap far beyond anything man has yet accomplished.
Thompson said: You made a voyage of three hundred years?
Kelinda said: Our ships were of multigeneration design. We were born in the intergalactic void. We shall die there during our return journey.
Rojan said: And our mission will be completed by a commander who is my descendant.
Kirk said: What happened to your ship?
Rojan said: There is an energy barrier at the rim of your galaxy.
Kirk said: Yes, I know. We've been there.
Rojan said: We managed to break through it with great difficulty. Our ship was destroyed. We barely managed to escape in a lifecraft. And now we have the means to begin our journey back to Andromeda.
Spock said: Why use our vessel? Why not transmit a message to your galaxy?
Rojan said: No form of transmission can penetrate the barrier.
Kirk said: Rojan, there's no reason to do this by force. Let's take your problem to the Federation. Research expeditions have catalogued hundreds of uninhabited planets in this galaxy suitable for colonization.
Rojan said: We do not colonize. We conquer. We rule. There's no other way for us.
Mccoy said: In other words, the galaxy isn't big enough for both of us.
Kirk said: The Federation has handled foreign invasions before.
Rojan said: Captain, we can control the Federation as easily as we can control you. The fate of the inferior in any galaxy.
Hanar suddenly appears on the planet.
Hanar said: All is proceeding according to plan, Rojan.
Rojan said: Kelinda, take them to the holding area. We'll keep you and your party here, Captain. Your crew will undoubtedly wish to co-operate with us if they understand that you are hostages.
Kelinda said: Move there.
Hanar said: Tomar has examined the ship. The modifications are underway.
Rojan said: Space again, Hanar. I do not think we could have kept our sanity living too long on this accursed planet.
Hanar said: It is an undisciplined environment. One cannot control it. Yet there are things of interest.
Rojan said: Yes, but disturbing. These shells in which we've encased ourselves, they have such heightened senses. To feel. To hear. To smell. How do humans manage to exist in these fragile cases?
Hanar said: Since the ship was designed to sustain these forms, we have little choice.
Rojan said: At least we'll be away from all of this openness. This is too strange for us, Hanar. We are creatures of outer space, and soon we will be safe in the comforting closeness of walls.
Scene: Cell.
Rock walls with metal bars across the 'door'.
Spock said: Fascinating material. Similar to diburnium, but considerably more dense. I doubt even phaser fire could disturb its molecular structure.
Kirk said: All right. We can't break out. There must be another way.
Thompson said: Captain, what do they want from us. What kind of people are they?
Kirk said: That's a very good question.
Mccoy said: They registered as human.
Spock said: No, Doctor. More than that. They registered as perfect human life forms. I recall noting the readings were almost classic textbook responses. Most curious.
Kirk said: Spock, what are the odds in such absolute duplication of life forms in another galaxy?
Spock said: The chances are very much against it.
Guard said: Captain. (Kalinda has appeared so they move away from the door) Captain. However perfect they are, there don't seem to be very many of them. Why...
Kirk said: They have the paralysis field. Rojan mentioned something about a central projector.
Mccoy said: Yes. If we could put that out of operation, we might have a chance.
Spock said: Gentlemen, I'm constrained to point out we do not even know what this projector looks like.
Kirk said: Those devices on their belts might indicate the source of the force field.
Spock said: Possible. I would have to have one to examine.
Guard said: You'll have one, sir, if I have to rip one of the Kelvans apart to get it for you.
Kirk said: You'll get your chance, but you'll do it under orders.
Guard said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: On Eminiar Seven, you were able to trick the guard by a Vulcan mind probe.
Spock said: Yes, I recall, Captain. I led him to believe we had escaped.
Kirk said: Do you think you can do it again?
Spock said: I shall attempt it.
Kelinda seems to be getting nervous as Spock makes his attempt, then he is suddenly thrown across the cell. They go to his aid, Kelinda enters and Kirk grabs her and knocks her out. He takes the belt device.
Kirk said: Are you all right?
Spock said: Yes, I will be all right, Captain. We must hurry.
Scene: Planet surface.
But as they come running out of their cell, Rojan and Hanar immobilise them. Kelinda walks over and is given her device back.
Rojan said: (releasing Kirk) This cannot go unpunished. Hanar. That one. (the guard) Take him aside. Kelinda, the female.
Thompson said: Captain?
Rojan said: Go. As a leader, you realize the importance of discipline. I need you and these other specialists, but those two are unnecessary.
Kirk said: I'm responsible. Let them go.
Rojan said: I think we're somewhat alike, Captain. Each of us cares less for his own safety than for the lives of his command. We feel pain when others suffer for our mistakes. Your punishment shall be to watch them die. Captain. Proceed, Hanar.
The guard and the yeoman are reduced to blocks of solid matter.
Rojan said: Bring them to me. This is the essence of what they were. The flesh and brain and what you call the personality, distilled down into these compact shapes. And once crushed (he demonstrates) this person is dead. However, that one can be restored. (throws it on the ground) Hanar?
The security guard reappears.
Captain's log, stardate 4657.5. Work is proceeding on the Enterprise as my crew is forced to make the required changes in the ship for intergalactic travel. I can't forget the picture of Yeoman Thompson crushed to a handful of dust.
Scene: Cell.
Mccoy said: Spock, are you sure you're all right?
Spock said: Yes, quite all right, Doctor.
Mccoy said: You didn't look very well when you broke that mind touch.
Spock said: I did not break it, Doctor. I was thrown away by something I've never experienced before.
Kirk said: What was it?
Spock said: A series of bizarre and exotic images bursting on my mind and consciousness. Colours, shapes, mathematical equations fused and blurred. I've been attempting to isolate them, but so far I've been able to recall clearly only one. Immense beings, a hundred limbs which resemble tentacles. Minds of such control and capacity that each limb is capable of performing a different function.
Mccoy said: Do you mean that's what the Kelvans really are?
Spock said: Undoubtedly.
Mccoy said: Well, if they look that way normally, why did they adapt themselves to our bodies?
Kirk said: Perhaps practicality. They chose the Enterprise as the best vessel for the trip. Immense beings with a hundred tentacles would have difficulty with the turbolift. We've got to stop them. We outnumber them. Their only hold on us is the paralysis field.
Mccoy said: Well, that's enough. One wrong move, and they jam all our neural circuits.
Kirk said: Jam. Spock, if you reverse the circuits on McCoy's neuro-analyser, can you set up a counter field to jam the paralysis projector?
Spock said: I'm dubious of the possibilities of success, Captain. The medical equipment is not designed to put out a great deal of power. The polarized elements would burn out quickly.
Kirk said: Is there a chance at all?
Spock said: A small one.
Kirk said: We'll take it. You and Bones have to get to the ship.
Mccoy said: How?
Kirk said: Yes. Mister Spock, you're sick.
Spock said: I assure you, Captain, I am in perfect health.
Kirk said: No, you're not. Doctor McCoy has given you an thorough examination, and you're ill. In fact, if you don't get to the sickbay, you're going to die.
Mccoy said: It's a good idea, Jim, but anyone looking at him can tell he's healthy.
Kirk said: Vulcans have the ability to place themselves in a kind of trance, complete relaxation of every part of the mind and body.
Spock said: We find it more restful to the body than your so-called vacation.
Kirk said: Can you do it now and come out of it in the sickbay, say in half an hour?
Spock said: It will take me a moment to prepare.
Kirk said: Go ahead.
Spock touches his forehead, straightens up, then falls gently into McCoy and Kirk's arms.
Mccoy said: Jim, his heartbeat really is slow. His pulse is practically non-existent.;
Kirk said: (goes to the door) Hanar? Hanar.
Hanar said: What do you want, human?
Kirk said: Mister Spock is ill. The doctor thinks he may be dying.
Hanar said: This illness came on him rather suddenly. Is it not unusual?
Kirk said: He's a Vulcan. They don't react like humans.;
Mccoy said: He may die. If I can get him up to sickbay, there's a chance he'll live.
Hanar said: Stand away from the door. (enters the cell for a closer look) I will have you beamed aboard.
Kirk said: Do what you can with him, Bones.
Scene: Sickbay.
McCoy and Tomar wheel Spock in on a trolley.
Chapel said: Doctor, what happened?
Mccoy said: Prepare two ccs of stokaline.
Chapel said: Stokaline? But, doctor, that's
Mccoy said: Don't argue, nurse. Just get it. (injects Spock) This may be the turning point. Prepare another shot.
Chapel said: But, Doctor
Mccoy said: Please, nurse, just follow orders, will you?
Spock opens his eyes then shuts them again before she returns with the hypo. McCoy gives another injection as Tomar watches from a little distance.
Mccoy said: There, that should do it. Just let him rest now. (to Tomar) You see, it's a flare-up of Rigelian Kassaba Fever. He suffered from it about ten years ago, and it recurs every now and then. There's no danger if he gets medication in time. He'll be all right in a couple of hours.
Tomar said: Very well. I will inform Rojan. You will stay here.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: What do you want from me now?
Rojan said: We will beam aboard the vessel shortly. I wish you to understand your duties.
Kirk said: My duty is to stop you in any way I can.
Rojan said: You will obey.
Kirk said: Or you will kill more of my people?
Rojan said: Captain Kirk, I cannot believe that you do not understand the importance of my mission. We Kelvans have a code of honour. Harsh, demanding. It calls for much from us and much from those whom we conquer. You have been conquered. I respect your devotion to your duty, but I cannot permit it to interfere with mine.
Kelinda said: (picking a flower and smelling it) These are lovely. Captain Kirk, what is it you call them?
Kirk said: Flowers. I don't know the variety.
Kelinda said: Our memory tapes tell us of such things on Kelvan. Crystals that form with such rapidity, they seem to grow. They look like this fragile thing somewhat. We call them Sahsheer.;
Kirk said: A rose by any other name.
Kelinda said: Captain?
Kirk said: A quote from a great human poet, Shakespeare. That which we call a rose by any other name would smell as sweet.
Scene: Bridge.
Rojan said: Drea has computed and laid a course for Kelva, Captain.
Chekov said: We've jumped to warp eight.
Rojan said: And we'll go faster yet. Increase speed to warp eleven.
Kirk said: Increase speed to warp eleven, Mister Chekov.
Drea said: On course and proceeding as planned. We will approach the barrier within an hour.
Rojan said: Very well.
Kirk said: Rojan, I'm going to sickbay. My first officer was taken ill.
Rojan said: Yes, I was informed. You may go.
Scene: Medical Laboratory.
Kirk said: Anything?
Spock said: I've located their power source, captain. It's installed in Engineering.
Mccoy said: We're just going to jam it.
Scott said: I've tied in all the lab computers. That will give it a bit more power to push with.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott and Spock are in the upper gallery, while Kirk is apparently talking to Tomar below in main engineering. There is a rounded metal object on the console.
Scott said: This is it. Now all we have to do
Spock said: Whatever it is we must do, it is impossible.
Scott said: Why?
Spock said: This material surrounding the projector is the same as I discovered on the planet. Readings indicate it is impervious to any of our weapons. We cannot penetrate the casing to get to the machine.
Scott said: That's it, then.
Spock said: There is one other possibility, Mister Scott. The final decision, of course, must be the captain's, but I believe we must have it ready for him. The Enterprise is propelled by matter-anti-matter reactors. The barrier we must traverse is negative energy.
Scott said: I see what you're getting at. I can't say I like it.
Spock said: Nor I. But it must be made available to the captain.
Scene: Corridor.
Spock and Scott meet up with Kirk.
Drea said: Captain Kirk to the bridge, please.
Scene: Turbolift.
Kirk said: Well?
Spock said: Impossible, Captain. The power source is protected by a material we cannot breach even with our phasers. Mister Scott and I have prepared the means for the only logical alternative available to us.
Kirk said: What alternative?
Spock said: The barrier we must penetrate is composed of negative energy.
Scott said: I have opened the control valves to the matter-anti-matter nacelles. On your signal, I will flood them with positive energy.
Kirk said: What?
Spock said: When we engage the barrier, the ship will explode. The Kelvans will be stopped here.
Scott said: And so will we.
Kirk said: Are you mad? I can't just
Scene: Bridge.
The turbolift arrives.
Rojan said: Take your places, gentlemen. We're approaching the barrier.
Kirk takes the Captain's chair, Spock and Scott their consoles. As the barrier approaches, Scott's finger is poised over a flashing button.
Captain's log, stardate 4658.9. With The Enterprise under control of the Kelvans, we are approaching the energy barrier at the edge of our galaxy. Spock and Scotty have devised a suicide plan to stop the Kelvans. They have rigged the ship to explode on my signal.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Reading, Spock.
Spock said: Sensors indicate density negative, radiation negative, energy negative. (Kirk starts chewing his nails with indecision) All instruments off the dials, Captain. We are in contact with the barrier.;
Scott said: Outside hull temperatures rising, sir. It's over two thousand degrees now. Sir?
Kirk said: Hold your position.
Scott throws switches to stop the button flashing. The ship starts shaking as it passes through the barrier into intergalactic space.
Chekov said: We made it.
Spock said: Instruments returning to normal, Captain.
Uhura said: All decks report. Damage and casualties.
Scott said: Several systems out, sir. Operating on emergency backup. None affect flight procedure.
Spock said: Life support systems sustaining on emergency.
Uhura said: I'll have a full report on ship's status for you in a moment, sir.
Rojan said: Your people are most efficient, Captain.
Kirk said: Thank you. So are yours.
Rojan said: Hanar, start the neutralising operation.
Hanar leaves.
Kirk said: What neutralising operation?
Rojan said: You humans are troublesome for us. We needed you to get us through the barrier. But there aren't enough of us to efficiently guard all of you of the time. Further, the food synthesisers cannot manufacture enough food for the entire journey. We are therefore neutralising all nonessential personnel.
Kirk said: No!
Rojan said: The procedure is already underway. Now, as to bridge personnel. Drea? We have no need for communication.
Uhura is reduced to a block of salts.
Rojan said: And since Drea is capable of handling the ship from here on.
Bye, Chekov and other crew.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk is walking along when he comes across a cluster of blocks and some instruments on the floor.
Rojan said: Do you not agree that this is better thing for them than exploding the ship as your engineer had thought to do? We detected it, of course. Tomar has devised a mechanism to prevent any further tampering. Please accept your situation, Captain. It will make things much less painful.
Scene: Rec room.
Kirk said: Is this all?
Spock said: I have reviewed ship's personnel, Captain. It appears we four are the only ones the Kelvans consider essential.
Mccoy said: Scotty tells me you could've destroyed the ship in the barrier. Why didn't you?
Kirk said: I couldn't.
Mccoy said: But that was our only chance to stop them
Kirk said: I didn't think it was.
Mccoy said: Jim
Kirk said: Bones, that's enough!
Mccoy said: Jim, I saw them reduce four of my doctors and nurses into those little
Kirk said: They've reduced the whole crew! (thumps table in anger)
Tomar said: I do not understand why you take the trouble to consume this bulk material to sustain yourselves. (holds up a pill box) We have ascertained that these contain all the nutritional elements.
Mccoy said: Before you condemn it, why not try it?
Tomar said: I believe I will. Assist me.
Kirk said: It's your idea, Doctor. Go ahead.
Mccoy said: All right, I'll show you how to work the selector.
He gets a tray of food for Tomar and sits him down at another table. Tomar takes a cautious mouthful.
Scott said: (whispering) Sir, why don't we try again to knock out the paralysis projector? I know the casing looks impenetrable, but I may be able to do something.
Kirk said: Even if we could, it's out of the question. We need that projector to bring our people back to human form.
Scott said: Then how will we stop the Kelvans?
Spock said: Captain?
They look over at Tomar, who is enjoying his meal.
Tomar said: It's quite good.
Mccoy said: I'm delighted.
Spock said: Most curious.
Kirk said: What is?
Spock said: The isolated glimpses of things I saw when I touched Kelinda's mind are beginning to coalesce in my consciousness. The Kelvans have superior intellectual capacity. To achieve it, they have apparently sacrificed anything which would tend to distract them. Perceptive senses such as taste, touch, smell, and, of course, emotions.
Kirk said: But then Tomar shouldn't be enjoying the taste of his food.
Spock said: Yes. Quite correct, Captain. But they have taken human form and are therefore having human reaction.
Mccoy said: If he keeps reacting like that, he's going to need a diet.
Kirk said: If they all respond to stimulation of the senses, then maybe we can distract them. They can't have been able to handle the senses yet. If we can confuse them enough, we can get those devices from their belts.
Spock said: That seems reasonable.
Kirk said: All right. It may be our only chance. Look for any way to stimulate the senses.
Scott said: I can think of one way right off. (goes over to Tomar) Lad, you're going to need something to wash that down with. Have you ever tried any Saurian brandy?
Scene: Sickbay.
McCoy is examining Hanar.
Mccoy said: I don't know about that.
Hanar said: Please articulate.
Mccoy said: Well, that body of yours is a bit anaemic. Comes from taking food in pills instead of solid sustenance.
Hanar said: What are you doing?
Mccoy said: I'm going to give you a shot. High-potency vitamin concentrate. You'll need three a day for a few days. And eat some solid food, will you?
Scene: Scott's quarters.
The brandy bottle is empty, and the two men are full of alcohol.
Tomar said: No more.
Scene: Kelinda's quarters.
Kelinda is at a desk, apparently working.
Kirk said: Am I disturbing you?
Kelinda said: What is it you wish?
Kirk said: I wish to apologise.
Kelinda said: I don't understand, Captain.
Kirk said: For hitting you. I'm sorry.
Kelinda said: That is not necessary. You attempted to escape as we would have.
Kirk said: Yes, well, I don't usually go around beating up beautiful women.
Kelinda said: Why not?
Kirk said: Well, there are better things for men and women to do.
Kelinda said: Like what?
He strokes her collar bone.
Kirk said: Is this where I hit you?
Kelinda said: No, the other side.
Kirk said: Oh. I'm sorry. (he kisses it) Is that better?
Kelinda said: Better? Was it intended as a remedy?
Kirk said: This is.
And gives her a full-on kiss with embrace.
Kelinda said: Is there some significance to this action?
Kirk said: Well, among humans, it's meant to express warmth and love.
Kelinda said: Oh. You are trying to seduce me. I have been studying you.
Kirk said: Me?
Kelinda said: All humans. This business of love. You have devoted much literature to it. Why do you build such a mystique around a simple biological function?
Kirk said: We enjoy it.
Kelinda said: The literature?
Kirk said: Kelinda, I'm sorry I brought up the whole subject.
Kelinda said: Do you really regard this touching of the lips as pleasurable?
Kirk said: I did.
Kelinda said: Curious. Let me try.
She kisses him, and Rojan enters.
Rojan said: Is there some problem, Captain?
Kirk said: Not when I came in.
Kirk leaves
Rojan said: What did he want here?
Kelinda said: He came to apologise for hitting me. Apparently it involves some peculiar touching contact.
Rojan said: In what manner? (she kisses him) Very odd creatures, these humans.
Scene: Scott's quarters.
Another bottle has been emptied.
Tomar said: Do you have more?
Scott said: Not of this.
Tomar said: Anything.
Scene: Rec room.
Spock and Rojan are playing 3D chess.
Spock said: Yes. Humans are very peculiar. I often find them unfathomable, but an interesting psychological study.;
Rojan said: Well, I do not understand this business of pressing with the lips to apologise.
Spock said: I believe you're referring to a kiss. But it is my understanding that such apologies are usually exchanged between people who have some affection for each other.
Rojan said: Kelinda has no affection for Captain Kirk.
Spock said: Your game is off. Are you disturbed by the incident?
Rojan said: Why should I be disturbed?
Spock said: You've known Kelinda for some time. She's a Kelvan as you are. Among humans, I've found the symptoms you're displaying usually indicate jealousy.
Rojan said: I have no reason for such a reaction. Kelinda's a female, nothing more.
Spock said: Captain Kirk seems to find her quite attractive.
Rojan said: Well, of course she is!
Spock said: You are not jealous?
Rojan said: No!
Spock said: Nor upset?
Rojan said: Certainly not.
Spock said: Checkmate.
Scene: Scott's quarters.
Scott said: I found this on Ganymood, er, Ganymede.
Tomar said: What is it?
Scott said: Well, it's, er. (peers at it, sniffs it) It's green.
Scene: Kelinda's quarters.
Kelinda is preening herself in front of a mirror when Rojan walks in.
Rojan said: Kelinda, I've been thinking.
Kelinda said: Yes?
Rojan said: I do not wish you to fraternise with any of the humans.
Kelinda said: Why not?
Rojan said: Well, they, they offer such strange ideas. They're not meant for us. Not for Kelvans.
Kelinda said: Have you given this order to the others?
Rojan said: No. And I wish you to particularly avoid Captain Kirk.
Kelinda said: I will not. You have told me over and over again, humans are no threat to us. We are superior. I will do as I please.
Rojan said: You will do as I say, or I will neutralise your Captain Kirk and all the other humans as well.
He has taken a rather firm hold of her arm.
Scene: Sickbay.
Hanar is having another vitamin shot.
Hanar said: How many more of these?
Mccoy said: Well, now, let's see. You've had three shots. I think you better stay on them for a few days, and then we'll see how you're responding.
Hanar said: I see no reason for you to refer to yourself in the plural.
Scene: Scott's quarters.
Tomar said: You have more?
Scott said: All I have is a bottle of very, very, very old Scotch. Whisky!
Tomar said: I will try it.
Scott said: I'll get it! (takes the helmet off a breastplate and reaches in, removing a very dusty bottle.) I was saving you for
Tomar said: What?
Scott said: Never mind. Gie us your glass.
Scene: Rec room.
Kirk said: The thing is, I can't tell if we're getting anywhere. And I haven't seen Scotty in hours.
Mccoy said: We haven't seen Tomar either. But my man Hanar is getting more irritable by the minute. I'm giving him shots of formazine. That should have him climbing the walls.
Spock said: Rojan has exhibited symptoms of jealousy.
Kelinda enters.
Kelinda said: I would like to speak with you, Captain.
Spock said: Doctor, I'm due for another injection of stokaline.
Mccoy said: Hmm?
Spock said: Stokaline.
Mccoy said: Oh. You will pardon us.
Spock and McCoy leave.
Kirk said: You had something to say?
Kelinda said: Yes. This cultural mystique surrounding the biological function.
Kirk said: Yes?
Kelinda said: You realise humans are overly preoccupied with the subject.
Kirk said: Yes. We do think a great deal about it.
Kelinda said: I've done some supplemental reading on it, and, er
Kirk said: You have a question?
Kelinda said: Yes. I was wondering, would you please apologise to me again?
Kirk smiles broadly.
Scene: Bridge.
Hanar said: Rojan, I want to talk to you.
Rojan said: Very well.
Hanar said: First, I do not like the way responsibility and duty has been portioned out to us.
Rojan said: It's the way your duties have always been assigned.
Hanar said: That is my second quarrel with you.
Rojan said: Hanar!
Hanar said: And further, I do not care much for the way you run this ship.
Rojan said: Hanar, confine yourself to your quarters!
Hanar storms off the bridge, and Rojan hits the arm of the Captain's chair. Drea stares.
Scene: Rec room.
There's a whole lot of smooching going on.
Kelinda said: (coming up for air) Rojan has forbidden me to see you.
Kirk said: Yes, that's too bad. Why do you defy him?
Kelinda said: It's not a question of defiance. We were told to find out everything we could about you.
Kirk said: Huh. And how's the research going?
Kelinda said: I need some more experiments.
She's getting the hang of kissing.
Scene: Bridge.
Rojan said: Mister Spock, you were not ordered to the bridge. What is your purpose here?
Spock said: Automatic sensors and various other recording devices require monitoring and periodic adjustments.
Rojan said: Very well. Proceed. Have you seen Captain Kirk?
Spock said: If you wish, I shall call him to the bridge.
Rojan said: No. I was wondering where he was.
Spock said: I left him in the recreation room.
Rojan said: He was alone then.
Spock said: No, Kelinda was with him. She seemed anxious to speak to him.
Rojan said: I told her to stay away from him.
Spock said: It would appear, sir, that you have little control over her. Or perhaps Captain Kirk has more.
Rojan leaves the bridge.
Scene: Scott's quarters.
The last drops of Scotch go into Tomar's glass.
Tomar said: Very interesting. But I feel rather strange.
He makes some jerking motions then falls off his chair onto the floor.
Scott said: We did it, you and me. Put him right under the table. (takes the paralyser off Tomar's belt) I'll take this to the captain.
He gets to the door, then stops and gently falls back against the wall. He slides to the floor, as out of it as Tomar is.
Scene: Rec room.
Rojan breaks up the kissing session.
Rojan said: Kelinda, I told you to avoid this human.
Kelinda said: I did not wish to.
Rojan said: I am your commander.
Kirk said: That's not enough, Rojan.
Rojan said: You did this to her, corrupted her, turned her away from me!
Kirk said: If you can't keep her, that's not my problem.
Rojan said: You will release her!
Rojan drags Kirk away from Kalinda. Kirk slaps him across the face, twice. Finally he has goaded him into a fight.
Kirk said: Why don't you use your paralyser? You thought I was taking your woman away from you. You're jealous! You tried to kill me with your bare hands. Would a Kelvan do that? Would he have to? You're reacting with the emotions of a human. You are a human.
Rojan said: No, I cannot be!
He throws off Kirk, into the arms of Spock and McCoy who are entering the room.
Kirk said: I'm stimulating him. (McCoy pushes him back into the fight.) You have no choice. To use this ship, you have to use our form and now you're stuck with it, you and your descendants, for the next three hundred years.
Rojan said: You fool. These bodies are tools. We remain Kelvans!
Kirk said: Look what's happened in the short time you've been exposed to us. What do you think will happen in three centuries? When this ship gets to Kelva, the people on it will be human. They'll be aliens. Enemies!
Rojan said: We have a duty, our mission. We've got to accomplish any way we can.
Kirk said: Your mission is to find new worlds for your people to live in. You can still do that. We can bring this problem to the Federation. There are many planets in this galaxy that can be inhabited.
Rojan said: You would really do that? You would extend welcome to invaders?
They finally stop fighting.
Kirk said: No. But we would welcome friends.
Spock said: Rojan, you are only a link in a chain, following an order given three hundred years ago. This is an opportunity for you to establish a destiny of your own.
Rojan said: Perhaps. Perhaps it could be done.
Spock said: A robot ship could be sent to Kelva with the Federation proposal.
Rojan said: But if we retain this form, where could we find a place?
Mccoy said: Seems to me that little planet you were on is kind of nice.
Rojan said: And you. You would wish to remain with him?
Kelinda said: He's most interesting, but I wish to go with you. I believe I owe you an apology. (she kisses Rojan) It's most pleasurable.
Rojan said: Yes. Very curious.
Kirk said: You see, Rojan, being human does have certain advantages. Being able to appreciate the beauty of a flower or a woman.
Rojan said: Bridge, this is Rojan.
Drea said: Yes, Commander.
Rojan said: I'm returning command of the ship to Captain Kirk. You will follow his orders.
Drea said: Sir?
Kirk said: Turn the ship around. We're going home.