Return To Tomorrow
Stardate: 4768.3
Original Airdate: 9 Feb, 1968
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: The reading's growing stronger, Captain. Coming from a star system directly ahead.
Uhura said: It's not a signal, sir. It does not seem to even exist, and yet it's affecting all my channels.
Kirk said: Well?
Spock said: Someone or something is attempting to attract our attention.
Kirk said: Someone or something has succeeded. Our distress signal relays have been activated. We've been given a direction to follow, but how? What's causing it?
Spock said: I do not know. Not even a Vulcan can know the unknown, Captain. We are hundreds of light years past where any Earth ship has ever explored.
Sulu said: Planet dead ahead, Captain. Becoming visual.
There's a yellow and gold planet on the viewscreen.
Spock said: Class M planet, Captain.
Kirk said: Close to Earth conditions.
Spock said: With two very important exceptions. It's much older than Earth, and about a half million years ago, its atmosphere was totally ripped away by some sort of cataclysm. The planet has evidently been dead since then. Sensors detect no life of any kind.
Sargon said: All of your questions will be answered in time, Captain Kirk.
KIRK; Are your hailing frequencies open?
Uhura said: No, sir.
Sargon said: I am Sargon. It is the energy of my thoughts which has touched your instruments and directed you here. Now with this closer distance I can speak to you at last.
Kirk said: Who are you, Sargon?
Sargon said: Please assume a standard orbit about our planet, Captain.
Kirk said: Is that a request or demand?
Sargon said: The choice is yours. I read what is in your mind. Words are unnecessary.
Kirk said: The planet is dead. There's no possibility of life there as we understand life.
Sargon said: And I am as dead as my planet. Does that frighten you, James Kirk? For if it does, if you let what is left of me perish, then all of you, my children, all of mankind must perish, too.
Captain's Log. Stardate 4768.3. The Enterprise is in orbit above a planet whose surface, our sensors tell us, is devoid of all life, a world destroyed and dead for at least a half million years. Yet from it comes a voice, the energy of pure thought, telling us something has survived here for those thousands of centuries.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: (dictating log) Since exploration and contact with alien intelligences is our primary mission, I've decided to risk the potential dangers and resume contact. Log entry out. How long before Starfleet receives that?
Uhura said: Over three weeks at this distance, sir.
Spock said: Captain.
Kirk said: Got something?
Spock said: Sensors registering some form of energy deep inside the planet.
Sargon said: Your probes have touched me, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Reading energy only, Captain. No life forms.
Sargon said: I have locked your transporter device on my co-ordinates. Please come to us. Rescue us from oblivion.
Spock said: Coming from deep under the planet's surface, Captain. Under at least one hundred miles of solid rock.
Sargon said: I will make it possible for your transporter to beam you that deep beneath the surface. Have no fear.
Spock said: Reading a chamber now. Oxygen-nitrogen atmosphere, suitable for human life support.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura, have Doctor McCoy report to the transporter room in ten minutes with standard landing party equipment.
Uhura said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Spock.
Spock said: Captain, I do wish to inspect whatever this is that lived that long ago.
Kirk said: And I would like to have my science officer with me on something as unusual as this, but it is full of unknowns and we can't risk both of us being off the ship.
The lights go out.
Sulu said: All power gone, sir.
Kirk said: On the other hand, perhaps this Sargon would like you to come with us.
Power is restored.
Spock said: Fascinating.
Sulu said: All normal. No damage at all.
Kirk said: I see. Will you transport down with us, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Evidently, Captain.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu, you have the conn.
Scene: Transporter room.
Mccoy said: Jim, why no briefing on this? I'd at least like to know what we're getting into.
Kirk said: Easy, Bones. As long as you know there's something down there, you know as much as we do. The rest is only guesses.
Scott said: I don't like it, sir. The transporter co-ordinates preset by an alien of some sort. You could materialise inside solid rock.
Mccoy said: Inside solid rock?
Spock said: Unlikely. These co-ordinates correspond with the location of the subterranean chamber.
Kirk said: I have a feeling that they or it could destroy us just standing here if they or it wanted to.
Mulhall said: They or it?
Kirk said: Who are you?
Mulhall said: Doctor Ann Mulhall, Astro-biology. Well, I was ordered to report here for landing party duty.
Kirk said: By whom?
Mulhall said: Strange, I'm not sure. Well, I'm not a liar, Captain. I did receive an order to report here for duty.
Spock said: I'm sure she did, Captain, Just as you received an order to bring me along.
Kirk said: Oh, yes.
Mccoy said: Let's get back to this solid rock business. Just how much rock are we going to go through?
Spock said: Approximately one hundred twelve point three seven miles, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Miles? Are you joking?
Kirk said: No, we're not. Let's go.
Sargon said: Please stand ready. I will operate your controls.
Kirk said: Doctor, if you prefer to stay behind?
Mccoy said: No. No, if I'd be useful, as long as you're going down, I might as well take a medical look at whatever this is.
The landing party and two guards gather on the pads, Scotty stands sulking with arms crossed as the transporter activates, and just sends the four officers somewhere.
Scene: Chamber.
Spock said: Captain, the security guards.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Scott said: Can you read me, Captain?
Kirk said: Yes, Scotty, and I shouldn't be able to this deep inside the planet, but perhaps this has been arranged for us, too. Is the security guard up there?
Scene: Transporter room.
Scott said: They're fine. They Just didn't dematerialise.
Scene: Chamber.
Scott said: I don't like it, sir.
Kirk said: No problem yet. Maintain alert. Kirk out.
Mulhall said: Atmosphere report, Captain. A fraction richer in oxygen than usual for us, but otherwise normal.
Spock said: This vault was constructed about a half a million years ago. About the same time the planet surface was destroyed, if our sensor readings are accurate.
Kirk said: Composition of walls?
Spock said: They're an alloy or substance completely unknown to me. Much stronger and harder than anything I've measured before.
Mulhall said: All readings are off the scale, Captain.
Mccoy said: The air seems fresh. It must be re-circulated somehow.
Kirk said: Is that for us, or does it need fresh air?
A panel slides back to reveal a much larger area, with rock walls, and a glowing sphere elegantly poised on an angled support.
Sargon said: (the glowing sphere) Welcome. I am Sargon.
Spock said: Sargon, would it harm you if I
Sargon said: You may use your tricorder, Mister Spock. Your readings will show energy but no substance. Sealed in this receptacle is the essence of my mind.
Spock said: Pure energy. Matter without form.
Kirk said: Impossible.
Mccoy said: But you once had a body of some type?
Sargon said: A body much as yours, my children, although our minds were infinitely greater.
Kirk said: That's twice you've referred to us as my children.
Sargon said: Because it is possible you are our descendants, Captain Kirk. Six thousand centuries ago, our vessels were colonising this galaxy, just as your own starships have now begun to explore that vastness. As you now leave your own seed on distant planets, so we left our seed behind us. Perhaps your own legends of an Adam and an Eve were two of our travellers.
Mulhall said: Our beliefs and our studies indicate that life on our planet, Earth, evolved independently.
Spock said: That would tend, however, to explain certain elements of Vulcan prehistory.
Sargon said: In either case, I do not know. It was so long ago, and the records of our travels were lost in the cataclysm which we loosened upon ourselves.
Kirk said: A war?
Sargon said: A struggle for such goals and the unleashing of such power that you could not comprehend.
Kirk said: Then perhaps your intelligence wasn't so great, Sargon. We faced a similar crisis in our early nuclear age. We found the wisdom not to destroy ourselves.
Sargon said: And we survived our primitive nuclear era, my son. But there comes to all races an ultimate crisis which you have yet to face.
Kirk said: I don't understand.
Sargon said: One day our minds became so powerful, we dared think of ourselves as gods.
Kirk said: You said you wanted our help. What is it you wish?
Kirk staggers back slightly, then there is a high-pitched sound as his head is flung back.
Spock said: Just a moment, Doctor.
Kirk said: I am Sargon.
Mccoy said: Where's our captain? Where's Jim Kirk?
Kirk said: He is unharmed. I have taken his body to demonstrate
Mccoy said: (drawing his phaser) I won't go along with this. Back to where you were, Sargon, or whatever you are.
Spock said: And if he refuses, Doctor, what do you propose to do with your phaser? That is still Jim's body.
Kirk convulses briefly, and the sphere has dimmed a lot.
Kirk said: Lungs filled with air again. To see again. Heart pumping, arteries surging with blood again. A half a million years. To be again. Your captain has an excellent body, Doctor McCoy. I compliment you both on the condition in which you maintained it.
Spock said: What are your plans for it? Can you exchange places again when you wish?
Kirk said: Have no fear. Your captain is quite unharmed, although his mind generates insufficient energy for him to speak from there as I do.
Spock said: Doctor?
Mulhall said: Yes, I have the same readings.
Mccoy said: Are you aware of what's happening to his body? Heart action doubled, temperature a hundred and four degrees?
Mulhall said: He'll die if you don't leave his body. Soon!
Spock said: What is it you want of us?
Kirk said: In the next room, there are other receptacles. The other two of us that survived. You, Doctor Ann Mulhall, and you, Mister Spock, we require your bodies also. We must have Captain Kirk and you so that we may live again.
Scene: Small chamber.
There are a group of boxes on the wall, containing spheres. Only two are alight.
Kirk said: Even for us, a half million years is almost too long to wait. Two others still survive. Henoch and Thalassa. Thalassa, my Thalassa. I am pleased you survived with me. Forgive me. It has been so very long.
Spock said: When the struggle came which devastated your planet
Kirk said: Only the best minds were chosen to survive. Thalassa, my wife, as you may have guessed. Henoch, from the other side. Realising our mistake, we attempted to perpetuate both sides. We built this chamber here in order to preserve our essence in this fashion.
Spock said: Fascinating.
Kirk said: We knew the seed that we had planted on other planets would take root, that one day you would build vessels as we did, and one day you would come here.
Spock said: These others, they were stored differently than you, but it was your task to remain in the receptacle out there KIRK: and search the heavens with my mind, probing, waiting, probing. And then one day my mind touched your vessel and brought you here.
Mulhall said: So you could steal our bodies from us?
Kirk said: To steal? To take them from you? No, no, my children, you misunderstand. We mean only that you should lend us your bodies for a short time.
Mccoy said: And destroy them, just as you're burning that one up now. Heartbeat's two hundred and sixty two, Spock. Entire metabolic rate correspondingly high.
Kirk said: I will return your captain to you before the body limit has been reached.
Spock said: Our bodies, Sargon, for what purpose?
Kirk said: To build. To build humanoid robots. We must borrow your bodies long enough to have the use of your hands, your fingers.
Spock said: Then you intend to construct mechanical bodies, move your minds into them, and then return our bodies to us.
Mulhall said: We have engineers, technicians. Why can't they build your robots for you?
Kirk said: No. Our methods, our skills are far beyond your abilities. It is time.
They help him back to Sargon's sphere.
Scene: Chamber.
Kirk briefly convulses with pain, then the sphere glows bright again, and he falls to his knees.
Mccoy said: Is it you, Jim? (a nod) Good, his metabolic rate is back to normal.
Spock said: Captain, do you know what happened? Do you remember any part of it?
Kirk said: Yes. Sargon borrowed my body. I was floating in time and space.
Mccoy said: He doesn't appear to be harmed. Physically, anyway.
Kirk said: Spock, I remember. When Sargon and I exchanged, as we passed each other, for an instant we were one. I know him now. I know what he is and what he wants, and I don't fear him.
Mccoy said: That's the most ridiculous statement I've ever heard. An alien practically hijacks your body and then corks you into a bottle and
Mulhall said: I'm afraid that I must agree with Doctor McCoy. You could be suffering from a form of false euphoria.
Kirk said: Sargon.
Sargon said: I understand, my son. Go to your vessel. All who are involved must agree to this. After all these centuries, we can wait a few more hours.
Mccoy said: And what if we should decide against you?
Sargon said: Then you may go as freely as you came.
Scene: Briefing room.
Scott said: You're going to what? Are they all right in the head, Doctor?
Mccoy said: No comment.
Kirk said: A simple transference. Their minds and ours.
Mccoy said: Quite simple. Happens every day.
Kirk said: Scotty, I need your approval, too. Since you'll work with them, furnishing them all they need to make the android robots.
You won't be working with them, you'll be working with us, our bodies. They'll be inside us, and we'll be
Mccoy said: It all seems rather indecent to me.
Mulhall said: I'm not so certain of that, Doctor. It is scientifically fascinating.
Spock said: Once inside their mechanical bodies, engineer, they can leave this planet, travel back with us. With their knowledge, mankind could leap ahead ten thousand years.
Kirk said: Bones, they'll show us medical advances, miracles you never dreamed possible. Scotty, engineering advances. Vessels this size with engines the size of walnuts.
Scott said: Ach! You're joking.
Spock said: No, he's not.
Mccoy said: They're giants, and we're insects beside them. They could destroy us without meaning to. And all he wants is the body of our captain and our second in command, too. Coincidence?
Kirk said: They selected us as the most compatible bodies.
Mccoy said: What's your attitude on that, Doctor?
Mulhall said: Well, if we all agree, I'm willing to host Thalassa's mind. I'm a scientist. The opportunity is an extraordinary one for experimentation, observation.
Scott said: A starship engine the size of a walnut? That's impossible. But I don't suppose there'd be any harm in looking over diagrams on it.
Kirk said: Bones? You could stop all this by saying no. That's why I called you all here together. We'll all be deeply involved. It must be unanimous.
Mccoy said: Then I'll still want one question answered to my satisfaction. Why? Not a list of possible miracles, but a simple basic understandable why that overrides all danger. And let's not kid ourselves that there is no potential danger in this.
Kirk said: They used to say if man could fly, he'd have wings. But he did fly. He discovered he had to. Do you wish that the first Apollo mission hadn't reached the moon, or that we hadn't gone on to Mars and then to the nearest star? That's like saying you wish that you still operated with scalpels and sewed your patients up with catgut like your great-great-great-great-grandfather used to. I'm in command. I could order this. But I'm not because, Doctor McCoy is right in pointing out the enormous danger potential in any contact with life and intelligence as fantastically advanced as this. But I must point out that the possibilities, the potential for knowledge and advancement is equally great. Risk. Risk is our business. That's what the starship is all about. That's why we're aboard her. You may dissent without prejudice. Do I hear a negative vote? (silence around the table) Engineer, stand by to beam aboard three receptacles.
Scene: Sickbay.
The three volunteers are lying on beds, with the spheres on tables beside them.
Mccoy said: The extreme power of the alien mind will drive the heart action dangerously high, and The body functions will race many times their normal metabolism, so we're going to have to monitor this very carefully.
Chapel said: Yes, sir.
Mccoy said: Well, I guess we're as ready as we'll ever be, Jim.
Kirk said: Ready, Sargon.
The spheres emit a brilliant light, the patients twitch, then the spheres dim.
Kirk said: (with echoy Sargon voice) The transference is complete.
Chapel said: Metabolic rate is double and rising, Doctor.
Spock said: (with a grin and echoy voice) Hello. Oh, you are a lovely female. A pleasant sight to wake up to after half a million years.
Chapel said: Thank you.
Spock said: You're welcome.
Mulhall said: (echoy) I'd forgotten what it felt like even to breathe again. Sargon?
Kirk said: Here. In this body.
Mulhall said: I am not displeased, my husband. Your body is not unlike that which was your own.
Kirk said: And I too am pleased, beloved.
Mulhall said: After so long. So very long.
Kirk said: Kiss.
So they do.
Spock said: This is an excellent body, Doctor. I seem to have received the best of the three. Strength, hearing, eyesight, all far above your human norms. I'm surprised the Vulcans never conquered your race.
Mccoy said: Vulcans worship peace above all, Henoch.
Spock said: Yes, of course, Just as we do, Doctor.
Mulhall/Thalassa collapses and they help her back onto the bed.
Mccoy said: Nurse!
Then Kirk/Sargon gets dizzy.
Chapel said: Doctor?
Mccoy said: Henoch, you'd better get back to bed too.
Spock said: It will be unnecessary, Doctor. This Vulcan body is accustomed to the higher metabolism.
Mccoy said: Sargon, it won't work. You've got to get out before you kill them.
Kirk said: We will vacate at once until you can administer a metabolic reduction injection.
Mccoy said: A what?
Spock said: I'll prepare the formula, Sargon.
Kirk said: Henoch, your condition?
Spock said: I can continue in this body for several hours.
Kirk said: Fortunate. We will vacate at once.
And they are as good as their word.
Spock said: This woman will assist me. (to Chapel) You will take me to your pharmacology laboratory.
They leave.
Kirk said: Bones, what?
Mccoy said: It was close, Jim. You both barely got back alive. Unless the formula works, we can't risk it again.
Scene: Pharmacy.
Spock said: Now. this formula will reduce the heart action and the bodily functions to normal. While the bodies are occupied, you will administer one injection of ten cc's each hour.
Chapel said: I understand.
Spock said: This hypo you will code mark for Thalassa. And this one you will code mark for me.
Chapel said: Yes, sir.
Spock said: This one you will administer to Captain Kirk while Sargon is in his body.
Chapel said: This hypo does not contain the same formula.
Spock said: No, that's correct. But since I will arrange for you to administer each of the injections, no one else will notice.
Chapel said: Without the same formula, Captain Kirk will die.
He touches her forehead.
Spock said: What were you saying?
Chapel said: I. I was. I wanted to say something. I've forgotten what it was.
Spock said: Yes. Well, you were about to say that you watched me prepare the formula and fill each of the hypos.
Chapel said: Yes, that, that was it. I will inform Doctor McCoy that each is properly filled for each patient.
Spock said: Very good. You see, Sargon would not permit me to keep this body. It is therefore necessary for you to kill your captain so that Sargon will die with him.
Enterprise Medical Log. Stardate 4769.1. Three alien minds now inhabit the bodies of Captain Kirk, Science Officer Spock, and Doctor Ann Mulhall.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: As planned, the construction of android robots is underway. All is proceeding as expected and as promised. I can find no reason for concern, but yet I am filled with foreboding.
Scene: Laboratory.
Sargon and Thalassa are working, when their hands touch.
Mulhall said: Sargon, I remember a day long ago. We sat beside a silver lake. The air was scented with the flowers of our planet.
Kirk said: I remember. You held my hand like this.
He kisses it, as Spock comes in.;
Kirk said: I think it best not to remember so well.
Spock said: In two days, you'll have your own hands, Thalassa. Mechanically efficient and quite human-looking. Android robot hands, of course. Hands without feeling. Enjoy the taste of life while you can.
Kirk said: Our minds will have survived. And as androids, we can move among the people who do live, teaching them, helping them not to make the errors we did.
Mulhall said: What is it, Sargon?
Kirk said: Nothing. Our next injection will renovate me. Do not be concerned.
Scene: Sickbay.
Chapel is holding the hypos and trying to remember something very important.
Mccoy said: Nurse, how are the last metabolic readings on our patients?
Chapel said: You'll find them excellent, Doctor. Well within normal.
Mccoy said: Is something wrong, Miss Chapel?
Chapel said: Er, yes. I, er, I had something to say. I can't seem to remember.
Mccoy said: Regarding our patients?
Chapel said: Yes. That must be it. I am so pleased the way they are responding, Doctor. The formula's working perfectly.
Mccoy said: You look tired, Miss Chapel. Perhaps you'd care for me to administer the last few injections.
Chapel said: Tired? Well, not at all, Doctor. Thank you for asking.
Leaves a puzzled McCoy.
Scene: Laboratory.
Mulhall/Thalassa is looking at her reflection in a metallic surface when Scott comes in with a small doo-dad.
Mulhall said: Thank you. Have you prepared the negaton hydracoils for the drawing Sargon supplied?
Scott said: For all the good it'll do you. It's a fancy name, but how will something that looks like a drop of jelly make this thing work? You'll need microgears and a pulley that does what a muscle does.
Mulhall said: That would be highly inefficient.
Scott said: I tell you, lady, this thing won't work.
Spock said: It will have twice the strength and agility of your body, engineer, and will last a thousand years. That is, assuming you'll stop wasting your time and allow us to complete it.
Scott leaves as 'Spock' laughs.
Spock said: A thousand-year prison, Thalassa. And when it wears out we'll build another one, and we'll lock ourselves into it for another thousand years. And another, and another. Sargon has closed his mind to a better way. With these bodies.
Mulhall said: They're not ours, Henoch.
Spock said: When you awoke in this body, Thalassa, you said how good it was to breathe again, to have eyes and to see again. To feel. To live and feel again, Thalassa. Just think how much we can do for mankind. Are these bodies too much to ask for in return? Would you prefer this?
Mulhall said: No. I'm beginning to hate it.
She rushes out, and 'Spock' smirks.
Scene: Briefing room.
Kirk said: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: Sickbay. McCoy.
Kirk said: Sargon here, McCoy. I'm in your deck six briefing room.
Mulhall enters.
Mccoy said: You sound terrible. Wait there for me.
Mulhall said: Sargon, what is it?
Kirk said: Nothing of importance. Fatigue perhaps.
She sees what is on the monitor.
Mulhall said: Henoch's formula.
Kirk said: Yes. I wanted to be certain there was no error. Formula is correct. Don't be concerned. It is an excellent body. There. You see? I feel better already.
Mulhall said: In time, a host body will become accustomed to us, husband. Injections will no longer be necessary.
Kirk said: That will take months, perhaps years. We haven't that choice, Thalassa.
Mulhall said: Husband. Feel the touch of my hand, husband.
Kirk said: No, beloved. If we torment ourselves
Mulhall said: Beloved. What will that word mean to a machine?
Kirk said: Our thoughts will intertwine.
Mulhall said: Will they, husband? Will they intertwine like this? Can two minds press close like this? Can robot lips do this? (they kiss, then Kirk falls gently to the floor) Sargon, what is it?
McCoy and Chapel enter.
Mccoy said: Hypo.
Mulhall said: Doctor, help him!
Mccoy said: He's dead.
Medical Log. Stardate 4770.3. Do I list one death or two? When Kirk's body died, Sargon was too far distant from his receptacle to transfer back. Sargon is dead. But is Captain Kirk dead? His body is, but his consciousness is still in the receptacle into which it was transferred earlier.
Scene: Sickbay.
The medical team hook Kirk's body up to a life support machine.
Nurse said: All his vital organs are now working, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Yes, we can keep them going for a few weeks, or a month. For all the good it'll do.
Scene: Laboratory.
There is a shiny plastic person on the table now.
Mulhall said: Why pretend to work on that thing, Henoch? You know you never intended to leave Spock's body.
Spock said: This is your new home, Thalassa. Once occupied, I'll add female features and some texturing. You no doubt want the mechanism to at least appear to be a woman. (he tests its hand movement.) It is ready, Thalassa.
Mulhall said: No!
Spock said: You have no excuse to keep the real body any longer. Sargon would've required that you enter the mechanism immediately.
Mulhall said: I cannot live in that thing.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mulhall said: Doctor.
Mccoy said: Yes?
Mulhall said: Would you like to save your Captain Kirk?
Mccoy said: But you said that was impossible.
Mulhall said: We have many powers Sargon did not permit us to use. He thought them too tempting to us. This body pleases me. I intend to keep it.
Mccoy said: I see. And Henoch intends to keep Spock's body, of course.
Mulhall said: Henoch's plans are his own affair. I wish only to exist in peace as a living woman.
Mccoy said: If you're asking my approval
Mulhall said: I require only your silence. Only you and I will know that Doctor Mulhall has not returned to her body. Isn't that worth your captain's life? Doctor, we can take what we wish. Neither you, this ship, nor worlds have the power to stop us.
Mccoy said: Neither Jim nor I can trade a body we don't own. It happens to belong to a young woman.
Mulhall said: Who you hardly know. Almost a stranger to you.
Mccoy said: I will not peddle flesh. I'm a physician.
Mulhall said: A physician? In contrast to what we are, you are a prancing, savage medicine man. You dare defy one you should be on your knees worshipping? I could destroy you with a single thought.
McCoy is suddenly writhing in pain as he is surrounded by flames.;
Mulhall said: Stop! (the flames are gone) Sargon was right. The temptations within a living body are too great. Forgive me.
Sargon said: I am pleased, my beloved. It is good you have found the truth yourself.
Mulhall said: Sargon? Where are you? I thought you destroyed by Henoch.
Sargon said: I have power even Henoch does not suspect, beloved.
Mulhall said: Yes. Yes, I see. I understand. Just as we would have placed our consciousness within robots, Sargon has placed his into your vessel.
Chapel said: Doctor.
Mulhall said: Doctor, leave us. Sargon has a plan. We have much work to do.
Scene: McCoy's office.
McCoy leaves the room, and the door shuts and locks behind him. The ship shakes as he activates his desk monitor.
Mccoy said: This is Sickbay. Get me
The door opens, and Chapel walks out, staring blankly ahead.
Mccoy said: Nurse Chapel, what in the devil?
Scene: Sickbay.
He goes back into the ward.
Mccoy said: Jim? Are you all right?
Kirk said: Yes, I'm fine, Bones.
Mccoy said: Thalassa?
Mulhall said: She is now with Sargon, Doctor. I'm Ann Mulhall, back in my own body.
Then we see the three blackened and broken spheres.
Mccoy said: Jim, the receptacles. Spock's consciousness was in one of them.
Kirk said: It was necessary.
Mccoy said: What are you talking about? There is no Spock to return to his body. You've killed a loyal officer, your best friend.
Kirk said: Bones, prepare a hypo. The fastest, deadliest poison to Vulcans. Spock's consciousness is gone. We must kill his body, the thing in it.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura is screaming in terror before collapsing across her console. Chapel is standing rigid by the Captain's chair.
Spock said: Must I make an example of you, too, Helm?
Kirk, Mulhall and McCoy enter.
Spock said: Pain, Captain. And you, my dear?
As Kirk and Mulhall double over, McCoy dashes to Spock's side, ready to inject him.
Spock said: Fortunately, Doctor, I know every thought of every mind around me. See? (to Chapel) Take the hypo from him. And inject him with it.
But she injects Spock/Henoch instead! He leaps from his seat.
Spock said: Fools. I'll simply transfer to another place, another body.
He whirls around.
Spock said: Sargon! No, Sargon, please. Let me. Let me transfer.
He falls to the floor and his victims are freed from their pain.;
Kirk said: Spock. My friend Spock. If there'd only been another way.
Sargon said: I could not allow your sacrifice of one so close to you.
Lights dim and glow, then Chapel wobbles.
Mccoy said: Jim.
Spock stands up.
Kirk said: You're alive.
Mccoy said: There was enough poison in that hypo to kill ten Vulcans.
Sargon said: No, Doctor. I allowed you to believe that to be true so that Henoch would read your thoughts and believe it also.
Mccoy said: Sargon.
Spock said: It seems, Doctor, the injection was only enough to cause unconsciousness.
Sargon said: But Henoch believed and fled the body. He is destroyed.
Kirk said: But your vessel was destroyed, too. Where was your consciousness kept?
Spock said: The place Henoch would least suspect, Captain.
Chapel said: That is why I was summoned into Sickbay, Doctor. Mister Spock's consciousness was placed in me. We shared consciousness together.
Sargon said: We now know we cannot permit ourselves to exist in your world, my children. Thalassa and I must now also depart into oblivion.
Kirk said: Is there any way we can help you, Sargon?
Sargon said: Yes, my son. You can allow Thalassa and me to share your bodies again. A last moment together.
Mulhall nods, and they go over to the science station for the light trick and voice change.
Mulhall said: Oblivion together does not frighten me, beloved. Promise we'll be together.
Kirk said: I promise, beloved.
Mulhall said: Together forever.
Kirk said: Forever beloved. Forever.
They embrace and kiss, and the light thing happens again during it.
Kirk said: Well, I'm sure that Sargon appreciated your co-operation, Doctor Mulhall.
Mulhall said: Yes. I was happy to co-operate, Captain.
Chapel said: It was beautiful.