That Which Survives
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 24 Jan, 1969
Scene: Bridge.
The; Enterprise is orbiting a blue and green world
Kirk said: A ghost planet?
Spock said: I suggest no supernatural explanation, Captain. I merely point out that the facts do not fit any known categories of planets.
Kirk said: Let's take the facts one by one. That should explain something.
Spock said: Undoubtedly. The age of this planet would seem to be only a few thousand years. It would be impossible for vegetation to evolve in so short a period.
Kirk said: Its size is approximately that of Earth's moon.
Spock said: But its mass and atmosphere are similar to Earth.
Kirk said: That would be difficult to explain.
Spock said: It would be impossible, Captain. An atmosphere could not evolve in so short a period of time.
Kirk said: And yet it has.
Spock said: Evidently. But the inconsistencies are so compounded as to present a seemingly impossible phenomenon.
Kirk said: But a fascinating one, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Precisely, Captain.
Kirk said: It would bear closer investigation, it would seem, if we're to provide Starfleet with an accurate report. Lieutenant, send Doctor McCoy to the transporter room for survey party. We'll also need Senior Geologist D'Amato.
Uhura said: Aye, aye, sir.
Kirk said: Feed beam down co-ordinates to the transporter room. Mister Sulu, you'll accompany me. Mister Spock, you have the conn.
Kirk and Sulu leave.
Spock said: Lieutenant Rahda, report to the bridge immediately.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: This expedition should be a geologist's dream, Mister D'Amato.
D'Amato said: The opportunity to explore so young a planet is an incredible bit of luck, Captain.
Kirk said: Yes. If Mister Spock is correct, you'll have a report to startle the Fifth Interstellar Geophysical Conference.
Mccoy said: Why? What is it, Jim?
Kirk said: A planet that even Spock can't explain. Prepare to transport. Energise.
But just as they start to disintegrate, a woman appears in the transporter room
Losira said: Wait! You must not go!
Before they have fully beamed out, the team see her touch the transporter operator, and him fall to the floor.
Scene: Planet surface.
Blue and orange clumps of grass amongst the rocks.
Mccoy said: Jim, did you see what I saw?
Kirk said: That woman attacked Ensign Wyatt.
D'Amato said: Captain. Captain!
There's an earthquake which also shakes the Enterprise.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Mister Spock! Are you all right?
Spock said: Yes. I believe no permanent damage was done.
Uhura said: What happened?
Spock said: The occipital area of my head seems to have impacted with the chair.
Uhura said: No, Mister Spock. I meant what happened to us?
Spock said: That we have yet to ascertain.
Rahda said: (a woman in yellow uniform) Mister Spock. The planet's gone!
Scene: Planet surface.
Sulu said: What kind of earthquakes do they have in this place?
Kirk said: I don't know. Any more like that and they'll tear this planet apart.
D'Amato said: Captain, this tremor we felt, if that's what it was, it's certainly like no seismic disturbance I've ever felt before. I got a reading of almost immeasurable power, but it's not there any more.
Kirk said: Could seismic stress have accounted for it?
D'Amato said: The reading I got had nothing to do with a seismic force.
Kirk said: That's very strange. And that woman. Kirk to Enterprise. Kirk to Enterprise, come in. The shock may have damaged it.
Sulu said: It's gone! The Enterprise, it's gone!
Sulu hands over his tricorder.
D'Amato said: He's right, Captain. There's nothing there.
Mccoy said: How could it be gone? What the devil does that mean, Jim?
Kirk said: For one thing it means we're stranded.
Sulu said: The Enterprise must have blown up. That would explain the high radiation readings, wouldn't it, Captain? If the matter - antimatter engines
Kirk said: Shall we stop guessing, Mister Sulu, and try and establish a pattern? I get no readings of high energy concentration. If the Enterprise had blown up, it would have left a high residual radiation.
Mccoy said: Could it be the Enterprise hit the planet?
Sulu said: Once in Siberia there was a meteor so great that it flattened whole forests and was felt as far away as
Kirk said: Mister Sulu, if I'd wanted a Russian history lesson, I'd have brought along Mister Chekov. This is a matter of survival, gentlemen. Without the Enterprise, we need food, and we need water, and we need them fast. I want a detailed analysis made of this planet, and I want it now.
Sulu said: Aye, sir.
D'Amato said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu.
Kirk hands back the tricorder.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Engineering, no damage. All power levels normal.
Uhura said: Damage control report. Ship functioning normally. Many bumps and bruises. One casualty, Mister Spock. The transporter officer, he's dead.
SPOCK; Dead? Spock to Sickbay.
M'Benga said: Sickbay, Doctor M'Benga.
Spock said: Report on the death of the transporter officer.
Scene: McCoy's office.
M'Benga said: We're not sure. Doctor Sanchez is conducting an autopsy right now.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Give me a full report as soon as possible, please. Spock out. Mister Scott, have the transporter checked for possible malfunction.
Scott said: Aye, sir.
Rahda said: No debris of any kind, sir. I've made two full scans. If the planet had broken up, there'd be some sign. But what bothers me is the stars, Mister Spock.
Spock said: The stars.
Rahda said: Yes, sir. They're wrong.
Spock said: Wrong?
Rahda said: Yes, Mister Spock. Look. Now here's a replay of the star pattern just before the explosion.
Spock said: A positional change.
Rahda said: It doesn't make any sense. But somehow I'd say that in a flash we've been knocked one thousand light years away from where we were.
Spock said: Nine hundred and ninety point seven light years to be exact, Lieutenant.
Scott said: But that's not possible. Nothing can do that.
Spock said: Mister Scott, since we are here, your statement is not only illogical but also unworthy of refutation. It is also illogical to assume that any explosion, even that of a small star going supernova, could have hurled us a distance of nine hundred and ninety point seven light years.
Scott said: The point is, it shouldn't have hurled us anywhere. Why, it should have destroyed us immediately, vaporised us.
Spock said: That is correct, Mister Scott, by all the laws that we know. There was no period of unconsciousness. Our ship's chronometers registered a matter of only a few seconds. Therefore, we were displaced through space in some manner which I am unable to fathom.
Scott said: What you're saying is that the planet didn't blow up, and the captain and the others, they're still alive!
Spock said: Please, Mister Scott, restrain your leaps of illogic. I have said nothing. I was merely speculating.
M'Benga said: Sickbay to Mister Spock.
Spock said: Spock here.
Scene: McCoy's office.
M'Benga said: You asked for an autopsy report. It's only preliminary, but the cause of death seems to have been cellular disruption.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Explain.
Scene: McCoy's office.
M'Benga said: It's as though every cell in the body had been individually blasted from inside.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Would any known disease organism do that?
Scene: McCoy's office.
M'Benga said: Doctor Sanchez has ruled that possibility out, sir.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Please keep me fully advised. Spock out. He was in the transporter room. Someone may have entered after Captain Kirk and his party left. Mister Scott, since the Enterprise is obviously functional, I suggest we return to our starting place at top warp speed.
Scott said: Aye, sir. But even at that it'll take a while to get there.
Spock said: In that case, Mister Scott, I suggest we start at once. Can you give me warp eight?
Scott said: Aye, sir. And maybe a wee bit more. I'll sit on the warp engines myself and nurse them.
Spock said: That position, Mister Scott, would not only be unavailing but also undignified. Lieutenant Rahda, plot a course.
Rahda said: Already plotted and laid in, sir.
Spock said: Good. Then prepare to come to warp eight.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: Your report covers all vegetation?
Sulu said: Yes, Captain. All vegetation is inedible. Poison to us.
Mccoy said: If the Enterprise has been destroyed, you know how long we can survive.
Kirk said: Yes. I don't see any water, but there must be some to grow the vegetation. A source of water would stretch our survival. Did you see any evidence of rainfall?
D'Amato said: No, sir. And I haven't seen any evidence that there ever has been any rainfall.
Kirk said: But there is earth-type vegetation.
Mccoy said: Is it possible the vegetation could absorb the water directly from the air?
Kirk said: Yes, that's possible. There's also the possibility of underground water.
D'Amato said: Yes, sir. Could be.
Mccoy said: Sulu's picked up an organism that's almost a virus, like a a plant parasite. It's the nearest biological form of life I can find.
Kirk said: This apparently is going to be our home for as long as we last. I suggest we find out as much as we can about it. Split up. D'Amato, see if you can find underground water.
D'Amato said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Sulu, run an atmospheric analysis.
Sulu said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Bones, see if you can find out anything about the vegetation and your parasite. How do they get their moisture? If you can discover how they survive, maybe we can.
Sulu and D'Amato have headed off to do their analyses. Sulu contacts Kirk on his communicator
Sulu said: Sulu to Captain.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Sulu said: Captain, I was making a standard magnetic sweep. From zero, I suddenly got a reading that was off the scale. Then, a reverse of polarity and now I get nothing. I've never seen anything like this reading. Like a door opened and then closed again.
Kirk said: Kirk out.
Elsewhere, D'Amato is wandering amongst the purple tipped vegetation and picking up handfuls of sand. He turns around and there is the woman.
Losira said: Do not be afraid.
D'Amato said: I'm not. Geological disturbances don't frighten me. I've come here to study them. My specialty.
Losira said: I know. You are Lieutenant D'Amato, Senior Geologist.
D'Amato said: That's right. How did you know that?
Losira said: From the spaceship Enterprise.
D'Amato said: Yes, and we're stranded here. You been talking to my friends?
Losira said: Do not be afraid.
D'Amato said: I'm not afraid.
Losira said: I am for you, Lieutenant D'Amato.
D'Amato said: You're, you're the woman on the Enterprise.
Losira said: I am only for D'Amato.
D'Amato said: Lucky D'Amato. I want to have a conference about sharing your food and water.
Losira said: Do not call the others. Please.
Somewhere else, McCoy gets out his communicator.
Mccoy said: McCoy to Kirk.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Mccoy said: Jim, I just got a life form reading of tremendous intensity. Suddenly it was just there.
Kirk said: What do you mean just there?
Mccoy said: Just that. All levels were normal, then I get this biological surge of life form registering. No, now it's gone.;
Kirk said: As though a door opened and closed.
Mccoy said: Yes.
Kirk said: What direction?
Mccoy said: Zero eight three.
Kirk said: Hang on. D'Amato's section. Come in. Kirk to D'Amato. Come in. Come in. Bones, Sulu, D'Amato doesn't answer.
Mccoy said: I'll be right there.
Kirk arrives first. We see a pair of legs with boots lying face down behind a rock.
Kirk said: Bones!
McCoy runs in and examines the body.
Mccoy said: Jim, every cell in his body's been disrupted.
Sulu arrives. Kirk adjusts his phaser.
Mccoy said: Jim, what are you doing?
Kirk said: Digging a grave.
Sulu said: Poor D'Amato. What a terrible way to die.
Kirk said: There are no good ways, Sulu.
Kirk phasers the ground, but it only cuts a shallow trench in the soil.
Sulu said: That's the same red rock.
Kirk said: My phaser didn't cut through it.
Mccoy said: Whatever it is, it has a mighty high melting point.
Kirk said: Eight thousand degrees centigrade. It looks like igneous rock, but infinitely denser.
Adjusts his phaser and tries again.
Mccoy said: This whole planet must be made up of this substance, covered over by top soil.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu, it might explain this place a little better if we knew what the substance is. I know it was D'Amato's field, but see what you can find out.
Sulu said: Yes, sir.
Mccoy said: Well, I guess a tomb of rocks is the best we can provide for D'Amato.
Kirk said: Yeah. It might be the most suitable memorial at that.
Mccoy said: I wonder what killed him.
Kirk said: I don't know, but something or someone did.
Scene: Bridge.
Rahda said: We're holding warp eight point four, sir. If we can maintain it, our estimated time of arrival is eleven and one half solar hours.
Spock said: Eleven point three three seven hours, Lieutenant. I wish you would be more precise.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: Scott to Bridge. Scott to Bridge.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Spock here.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Mister Spock, the ship feels wrong.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Feels, Mister Scott?
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: I know it doesn't make sense. Instrumentation reads correct, but the feel is wrong.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: It's something I can't quite put into words.
Spock said: That is obvious, Mister Scott. I suggest you avoid emotionalism and simply keep your instruments correct.
Scene: Engineering.
Spock said: Spock out.
Scene: Planet surface.
The cairn is complete, and topped off with a name-stone.
Sulu said: It looks so lonely there.
Mccoy said: It would be worse if he had company.
Sulu said: Doctor, how can you joke about it?
Mccoy said: I'm not joking. Until we know what killed him, none of us are safe.
Kirk said: We've got to figure this out and devise a defence against it. Is it possible that the rocks have life?
Sulu said: You remember on Janus Six, the silicon creatures
Mccoy said: But our instruments recorded that. They were life forms. They registered as life forms.
Kirk said: Unless we're dealing with beings, intelligent beings who can shield themselves.
Sulu said: Beings intelligent enough to have destroyed the Enterprise?
Kirk said: That's the problem, Sulu. We have only questions. No answers.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott is trying to track down the source of his feeling, and a man in a red boiler suit keeps looking over his shoulder.
Scott said: Watkins, check the bypass valve on the matter/antimatter reaction chamber. Make sure it's not overheating.
Watkins said: But, Mister Scott, the board shows correct.
Scott said: I didn't ask you to check the board, lad.
Watkins said: Yes, sir.
Watkins goes off into an adjoining room and checks a console and some panels in there. Then he is confronted by Losira.
Watkins said: Who are you?
Losira said: My name is not important. Yours is Watkins, John B. Engineer Grade four.
Watkins said: You know all about me. I've never seen you before.
Losira said: Show me this unit. I wish to learn.
Watkins said: This is the matter-antimatter integrator control. That's the cut off switch.
Losira said: Not correct. That is the emergency overload bypass, which engages almost instantaneously. A wise precaution, considering it takes the antimatter longer to explode once the magnetic flow fails. I am for you, Mister Watkins.
Watkins said: Mister Scott, there's a strange woman who knows the entire plan of the Enterprise.
But by the time Scott gets there, Watkins has screamed and Losira has turned sideways into a vertical line, then vanished.
Scott said: Oh, you poor lad. Scott to bridge. Scott to bridge.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Spock here.
Scott said: My assistant, Watkins, is dead.
Spock said: Do you know what he died of, Mister Scott?
Scott said: I didn't see it happen, but his last words were a warning cry about some strange woman.
Spock said: Security alert, all decks. Female intruder, extremely dangerous. Security alert. All decks.
Scene: Planet surface.
Dusk is falling, the sky is a dark purple.
KIRK; Conclusions.
Sulu said: The basic substance of this planet is an alloy of diburnium-osmium. It couldn't have evolved naturally.
Mccoy said: Captain, it doesn't make sense. In fact, nothing about this planet makes sense.
Kirk said: Except for a momentary fluctuation on your instruments, this planet has no magnetic field. The apparent age of these rocks is only a few thousand years. No known process could evolve the plant life they have here in that short space of time.
Mccoy said: Are you suggesting this might be an artificial planet?
Sulu said: But Captain, where are the people who made it? Why can't we see them?
Kirk said: The planet might be hollow. They might be shielding themselves from our sensor probes. It's dark. Let's get some rest. Tomorrow we have to find some food and some water or it's going to be a very unpleasant stay.
Mccoy said: While it lasts.
Sulu said: I'll take the first watch, sir.
Kirk said: All right. Take D'Amato's tricorder. Set it for automatic distress. You never can tell.
Sulu said: Aye, sir.
Sulu sets up the tricorder on a rock ledge, and leaves it beeping away to itself.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Spock to Sickbay. Have you completed the autopsy on Watkins, Doctor?
M'Benga said: Yes, we have, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Was the cause of his death the same as that which killed the transporter officer?
Scene: McCoy's office.
M'Benga said: Well, the pattern of cellular disruption was the same, but as to the cause, well your guess is as good as mine.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: My guess, Doctor, would be valueless. I suggest we refrain from guessing and find some facts.
Scene: McCoy's office.
Spock said: Spock out.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: The power of this intruder to disrupt every cell in a body, combined with the almost inconceivable power required to hurl the Enterprise such a distance, speak of a very high culture and a very great danger.
Scott said: You mean that one of the people who threw us a thousand light years away from that planet is on board and killing our people?
Spock said: A reasonable assumption, Mister Scott.
Scott said: Then you're right, Mister Spock. Watkins must've been murdered. I sent him in to check the matter-antimatter reactor. There are no exposed circuits there. It couldn't have been anything he touched.
Spock said: If there are more of those beings on that planet, the captain and the others are in very great danger.
Scene: Planet surface.
While Kirk and McCoy sleep, Losira turns off the tricorder. Sulu confronts her.
Losira said: I am unarmed.
Sulu said: Who are you?
Losira said: That is not important. You are Lieutenant Sulu. You were born on the planet Earth. You're helmsman for the Enterprise.
Sulu said: How do you know this? Where did you get this information? Are you from this planet?
Losira said: I am from here.
Sulu said: Then the planet is hollow. Who killed Lieutenant D'Amato? All right. The captain will want to talk to you. That way. Move!
Losira said: You do not understand. I have come for you.
Sulu said: What do you want?
Losira said: I want to touch you.
Sulu said: You were on the Enterprise. Keep back! Stop or I'll shoot! I don't want to have to kill a woman.
Sulu fires his phaser at her feet, then at her. It has no effect.
Sulu said: Captain Kirk! Captain Kirk!
As he backs away, Sulu falls over a stone. Losira manages to brush his shoulder before he gets away, screaming in pain, and Kirk steps in front of her.
Kirk said: Hold it! Who are you?
Losira said: I am for him. I am for Lieutenant Sulu.
Sulu said: Don't let her touch you, Captain! That's how D'Amato died. Phasers won't stop her.
Losira said: I am for Lieutenant Sulu. Please, I must touch him.
She puts her hand on Kirk's shoulder, but it doesn't hurt him. He pushes her away.
Kirk said: How can you destroy others and not me?
Losira said: I don't want to destroy. I don't want to.
Kirk said: Who are you? Why are you trying to kill us?
Losira said: Only Sulu. I mean you no harm.
Kirk said: Are there men on this planet?
Losira said: Please, I must touch him. I am for Lieutenant Sulu.
Kirk said: No!
Losira goes two-dimensional, then vanishes.
Kirk said: Bones, did you see that? Maybe Spock was wrong. Perhaps this is a ghost planet.
Mccoy said: Well, all I know is she almost made a ghost out of Sulu. His shoulder, where she touched it, every cell's been disrupted. Exploded from within. If she'd really gotten a good grip on him, Jim.
Sulu said: How can such people be, Captain? Such evil and she's so, so beautiful.
Kirk said: Yes, I know.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Security sweeps of all decks are negative, Mister Spock. No evidence of intruder.
Spock said: Very well. Cancel Red Alert but maintain increased security.
Uhura said: Aye, sir. All decks, cancel Red Alert. Maintain increased security.
Spock said: Please update our subspace report to Starfleet to include security search, results negative.
Uhura said: How did she get off the ship, sir?
Spock said: Presumably the same way she got on.
Uhura said: Yes, sir. Mister Spock what are the chances of the captain and the others being alive?
Spock said: Lieutenant, we are not engaged in gambling. We are proceeding in the only logical way to return to the place they were last seen, and factually ascertain whether or not they still live.
Uhura said: Yes, Mister Spock.
Rahda said: Mister Spock, speed is increased to warp eight point eight.
Scott said: Bridge to Engineering.
Scott said: Scotty here. I see it.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: It's a power surge. I'm working on it. Reduce speed until I locate the trouble.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Very well. Reduce speed to warp seven.
Rahda said: Aye, sir. Warp seven. Mister Spock, our speed has increased to warp eight point nine and still climbing.
Spock said: Bridge to Engineering. Negative effect on power reduction. Speed is still increasing.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: Aye, Mister Spock, and I found out why. The emergency bypass control of the matter-antimatter integrator is fused.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: It's completely useless. The engines are running wild. There's no way to get at them. We should reach maximum overload in about fifteen minutes.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: I would calculate fourteen point eight seven minutes, Mister Scott.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: Those few seconds will not make any difference, Mister Spock, because you and I and the rest of the crew will no longer be here to bandy it back and forth.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: This thing is going to blow up
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: And there's nothing in the universe can stop it.
Scene: Planet surface.
Mccoy said: There's a layer of necrotic tissue a few cells thick. A normal wound would heal quickly.
Sulu said: She just touched me. How could it happen so fast?
Kirk said: That's a good question. She touched the transporter chief. He collapsed immediately. She apparently got to D'Amato. We saw what happened to him. The question is, why are you alive?
Sulu said: Captain, I'm happy the way it turned out.
Mccoy said: Jim, what kind of power must she have?
Kirk said: The power to totally disrupt biological cell structure. Sulu's alive because I intervened. But that raises an even worse question.
Mccoy said: Yes. Why didn't she kill you?
Kirk said: She's not through yet.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott is working on the emergency bypass
Scott said: It's useless. And there's no question it's deliberate.
Spock said: Sabotage.
Scott said: Aye, and a thorough job. The system's foolproof. Whoever murdered Watkins sabotaged this.
Spock said: You said it was fused. How?
Scott said: That's what worries me.
Spock said: Worries, Mister Scott?
Scott said: Well, it's fused, all right, but it would take all the power of our main phaser banks to do it.
Spock said: Interesting.
Scott said: I find nothing interesting in the fact that we're about to blow up.
Spock said: No, but the method is fascinating.
Scott said: Whatever did this is still aboard this ship. I fail to understand why you cancelled the security alert.
Spock said: A force that could hurl us nine hundred and ninety point seven light years away and at that distance still be able to sabotage our main source of energy will not be waiting around to be taken into custody.
Scott said: Aye.
Spock said: As I recall the pattern of our fuel flow, there is an access tube leading to the matter-antimatter reaction chamber.
Scott said: There's a service crawlway, but it's not meant to be used while the integrator operates.
Spock said: Still, it is there, and it might be possible to shut off the fuel at that point.
Scott said: What with? Bare hands?
Spock said: A magnetic probe.
Scott said: Any matter that comes in contact with antimatter triggers the explosion. And I'm not even sure a man can live in the crawlway in the energy stream of the magnetic field that bottles up the antimatter.
Spock said: I shall try.
Scott said: You'll be killed, man!
Spock said: Unless a solution is found quickly, that fate awaits all of us.
Scott said: Aye. You're right. What have we got to lose? But I'll do it, Mister Spock. I know every millimetre of that system. I'll do whatever has to be done.
Spock said: Very well, Mister Scott. You spoke of the feel of the ship being wrong.
Scott said: Aye. It was an emotional statement. I don't expect you to understand it.
Spock said: I note it, Mister Scott, without necessarily understanding it. I propose to run an analysis through the ship's computers, comparing the present condition of the Enterprise with her ideal condition.
Scott said: Mister Spock, we don't have time for that.
Spock said: We have twelve minutes and twenty seven seconds. I suggest you do whatever you can in the service crawlway, while I make the computer study.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Sulu, do you feel strong enough to move about?
Sulu said: I feel fine, Captain.
Kirk said: Is he, Bones?
Mccoy said: He's in fair shape.
Kirk said: All right. Whatever destructive power this woman has seems to be aimed at one specific person at one specific time. If I'm correct, when she re-appears, the other two might protect the one she's after by interposing their bodies. No weapons seem to affect her.
Sulu said: But Captain, how does she know about us? Does she read our minds? (there's a whining sound) Phaser on overload!
Kirk said: Controls are fused. Drop!
He throws his phaser away, and it goes off with a big bang.
Kirk said: Apparently she can destroy our weapons as well as destroy us. Come on, let's go.
Scene: Bottom of crawlway.
Scott said: All right, lads. Get the crawlway door open. Hand me the tools. Communicator. All right. Head first. I hope Mister Spock knows what he's doing.
(Scott is slid on his back into a half-sized Jefferies tube with blue energy streaks crossing it.;
Scott said: Scott to Bridge.
Spock said: Go ahead, Mister Scott.
Scott said: I've sealed off the aft end of the service crawlway, and I've positioned explosive separator charges to blast me clear of the ship if I rupture the magnetic bottle. I'm so close to the flow now it feels like ants crawling all over my body.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Mister Scott, I suggest you refrain from any further subjective descriptions. You now have ten minutes and nineteen seconds in which to perform your task.
Scene: Crawlway.
Rahda said: Mister Spock, we're at warp eleven point two and accelerating.
Scott said: I heard that. The ship's not structured to take that speed for any length of time.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: You now have ten minutes and ten seconds.
Scene: Crawlway.
Scott said: All right, Mister Spock. I'm starting to open the access panel now.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock begins his computer study.
Scott said: Access to the flow itself.
Scene: Crawlway.
Scott said: If the magnetic flow jumps, you must jettison me. The safety control
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Will not hold more than two seconds if I rupture the field.
Spock said: I'm aware of these facts. Please get on with the job. Computer.
Computer said: Working.
Spock said: Analysis on my comparison co-ordinates.
Computer said: Unable to comply. Comparison co-ordinates too complex for immediate readout. Will advise upon completion.
Scene: Crawlway.
Scott said: I've removed the access plate, and I've got static electric charges dancing on the instruments. Looks like an aurora borealis in there.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Lieutenant Uhura, you are monitoring the magnetic force?
Uhura said: Oh yes, sir.
Spock said: Please do not take your eyes off of it. Lieutenant Rahda, arm the pod jettison system.
Rahda said: Aye, sir. I'll jettison the pod at the first sign of trouble.
Spock said: Not until my order.
Rahda said: Yes, sir. Warp eleven point nine.
Spock said: Mister Scott, what is your situation?
Scene: Crawlway.
Scott said: It's hard to see. There's so much disturbance that any attempt to get at the flow would rupture the magnetic field.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: You have eight minutes, forty one seconds.
Scene: Crawlway.
Scott said: I know what time it is. I don't need a blooming' cuckoo clock.
Scene: Planet surface.
Sulu said: Captain, I'm getting that strange magnetic sweep again, from zero to off the scale.
Kirk said: Yes. Like a door opening.
And suddenly Losira is there again.
Kirk said: Who have you come for this time?
Losira said: For you, James T. Kirk. Commander of the Enterprise.
Mccoy said: Keep behind us, Jim.
Kirk said: Why do you want to kill us?
Losira said: For defence. You are Captain James T. Kirk, commander of the Enterprise.
Kirk said: Then why do you want to kill me?
Losira said: You are an invader.
Kirk said: We're here on a peaceful mission. It's you who have killed our people. We mean no harm to you. We want to leave, peacefully.
Mccoy said: Captain, I'm getting no life form register.
Kirk said: An android?
Mccoy said: That would give a mechanical reading. I'm getting nothing.
Kirk said: Who are you?
Losira said: I am Losira, Commander.
Kirk said: Commander of what?
Losira said: Of this station.
Kirk said: Station? Station? Where? How do you feel about killing me?
Losira said: Feel? Killing is wrong.
Kirk said: Stay between us.
Losira said: You must not penetrate this station. Please, I must touch you.
Kirk said: You want to kill me?
Losira said: No.
Kirk said: Then why do it if you don't want to?
Losira said: I am sent.
Kirk said: By whom?
Losira said: We defend this place.
Kirk said: Are there others on this planet?
Losira said: They are no more.
Kirk said: How long have you been alone? Are you lonely?
She does her disappearing act.
Sulu said: She must be somewhere.
Mccoy said: She's not registering.
Kirk said: And there's this power surge, right off the scale. Like a door closing. It must be near here.
They walk on.
Mccoy said: Is the power level still holding, Jim?
Kirk said: Right off the scale. It's remained at a peak ever since she disappeared. The entrance is here.
A section of rock slides back and a door opens.
Mccoy said: You think we're being invited in?
Kirk said: It certainly looks like it. And the invitation doesn't exactly relax me.
Sulu said: I'd rather be on the Enterprise, sir.
Kirk said: I agree.
Mccoy said: We've been led here. Why?
Kirk said: I don't know. But whatever civilisation exists on this planet is in there. And without the Enterprise, gentlemen, the only source of food and water is in there. Let's go.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Computer read-out.
Computer said: Comparison analysis complete.
Spock said: Continue.
Computer said: Transporter factor M7 reassembled outphase point zero zero zero nine.
Rahda said: Fifty seven seconds to go.
Spock said: Understood.
Scott said: Mister Spock.
Spock said: Spock here.
Scene: Crawlway.
Scott said: I'm going to try to cut through the magnetic flow. But if the probe doesn't precisely match the magnetic flow, there'll be an explosion. Starting right now.
Uhura said: Magnetic force indicator jumping, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Mister Scott, ease off.
Uhura said: Magnetic force has dropped to normal, sir.
Rahda said: Warp thirteen point two, sir.
Spock said: Computer, for outphase condition, will reverse field achieve closure?
Computer said: Affirmative, if M7 factor maintained.
Spock said: Mister Scott
Scene: Crawlway.
Spock said: Reverse polarity on your magnetic probe.
Scott said: Reverse polarity?
Spock said: That is correct, Mister Scott.
Scott said: That'll take some doing. What purpose could it
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Please commence. I'll explain.
Scene: Crawlway.
Spock said: You were correct in your feel. The Enterprise was put through a molecular transporter and reassembled slightly out of phase. Reverse polarity should seal the incision.
Scott said: I have no time for theory. I just hope you're right.
Rahda said: Twenty seconds, Mister Spock.
Scott said: I'm doing the best I can! Wait! It's stuck! It's stuck! Push the button!
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Please continue, Mister Scott.
Scene: Crawlway.
Scott said: Don't be a fool! Push the button! It's your last chance! Don't be sentimental, push it. I'm going to die anyway.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Please continue.
Scene: Crawlway.
Scott said: It's loose! But there's no time. Push the button!
Rahda said: Nine seconds.
Scott gets his polarity reversed and puts the probe into the antimatter stream
Scene: Bridge.
Rahda said: Eight seconds, seven seconds
Scene: Crawlway.
Rahda said: Six seconds, five seconds, four seconds, three seconds, two seconds.
Scene: Bridge.
Rahda said: One. Mister Spock, now. Warp fourteen point one. Warp fourteen.
Uhura said: Magnetic forces steady.
We hear the engines slowing down.
Rahda said: Warp thirteen point nine and dropping.
Spock said: Mister Scott, you have accomplished your task.
Scene: Crawlway.
Scott said: You might at least say thank you.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: For what purpose, Mister Scott?
Scene: Crawlway.
Spock said: What is it in you humans
Scott said: Never mind.
Spock said: That requires an overwhelming display of emotion in a situation such as this? Two men pursue the only reasonable course of action indicated, and yet you
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Feel that something else is necessary.
Scene: Room.
Kirk, McCoy and Sulu enter a purple room with a cube hanging from the ceiling. It is glowing purple. Losira is there. Did I mention she is wearing purple?
Kirk said: Who have you come for? Form a circle. You see? You'd better tell us. Tell us. Who have you come for? Who have you come for? You're a very determined woman. For me?
Losira said: I am for James T. Kirk.
Kirk said: Gentlemen, I need your help.
Losira said: Please. I must touch you. I beg it. It is my existence.
Kirk said: We've seen the results of your touch.
Losira said: But you are my match, James Kirk. I must touch you. Then I will live as one, even to the structure of your cells, the arrangement of chromosomes.
Kirk said: That is how you kill. You'll never reach me.
A second Losira appears
Mccoy said: Watch out!
Losira 2 said: I am for McCoy.
Kirk said: That computer must be programming these replicas.
Mccoy said: The women match our chromosome patterns after they touch us.
A third Losira enters
Sulu said: It's a very painful affair. I can tell you.
Losira 3 said: I am for Sulu.
Kirk said: Shift positions.
Sulu said: Captain, we can no longer protect each other.
Spock and a security guard beam in.
Kirk said: Spock, the computer! Destroy it!
The guard phasers the cube, and the three Losiras disappear.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, I certainly am glad to see you. I thought you and the Enterprise had been destroyed.
Spock said: I had the same misgivings about you. We returned and picked up your life form readings only a moment ago.
Kirk said: Returned from where?
Spock said: From where this brain had the power to send the Enterprise. Nine hundred and ninety point seven light years across the galaxy. What a remarkable culture this is.
Kirk said: Was, Mister Spock. Its defences were run by computer.
Spock said: I surmised that, Captain. Its moves were immensely logical. But what people created this? Are there any representatives here?
Kirk said: There were replicas of one of them. But that power to recreate them has been destroyed.
Spock said: That is a loss, Captain.
Kirk said: Well, you wouldn't have thought so, Mister Spock, if you'd been among us.
An image appears on a wall
Losira said: My fellow Kalandans, welcome. A disease has destroyed us. Beware of it. After your long journey, I'm sorry to give you only a recorded welcome, but we who have guarded the outpost for you will be dead by the time you take possession of this planet. I am the last of our advanced force left alive. Too late the physicians discovered the cause of this sickness that kills us. In creating this planet, we have accidentally produced a deadly organism. I have awaited the regular supply ship from home for medical assistance, but I doubt now whether it will arrive in time. I will set the outpost controls on automatic. The computer will selectively defend against all life forms but our own. My fellow Kalandans, I, Losira, wish you well.
Mccoy said: The previous ships probably spread the disease all through their people. The supply ship that she was waiting for never came. All these thousands of years, she's been waiting to greet people who were dead.
Spock said: To do the job of defence, the computer projected a replica of the only image available. Losira's.
Kirk said: The computer was too perfect. It projected so much of Losira's personality into the replica that it felt regret, guilt, at killing. That bought us the time we needed to destroy it. She must have been a remarkable woman.
Mccoy said: And beautiful.
Spock said: Beauty is transitory, Doctor. However, she was evidently highly intelligent.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise. Five to beam up. I don't agree with you, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Indeed, Captain?
Kirk said: Beauty survives.