Spock's Brain
Stardate: 5431.4
Original Airdate: 20 Sep, 1968
Scene: Bridge.
The Enterprise is at Red Alert as an alien vessel approaches them.
Sulu said: Phaser banks standing by, sir.
Chekov said: Range forty three thousand and closing.
Kirk said: What do you read, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Configuration unidentified. Ion propulsion, high velocity, though of a unique technology.
Kirk said: Any contact, Lieutenant?
Uhura said: Hailing on all frequencies, sir. All languages have been attempted. No response. Now using standard interstellar symbols.
Kirk said: Keep trying.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Magnification ten, Mister Chekov.
Chekov said: Aye, sir. Thirty eight thousand and closing.
Kirk said: Well, Scotty?
Scott said: It beats me, but isn't she a beauty?
Kirk said: Interesting design.
Scott said: I've never seen anything like her. And ion propulsion at that. They could teach us a thing or two.
Kirk said: Life forms, Mister Spock?
Spock said: One. Humanoid or similar. Low level of activity. Life-support systems functioning. Interior atmosphere, conventional nitrogen-oxygen. Instruments indicate a transferal beam emanating from the area of the humanoid life form.
Kirk said: Directed at what?
Spock said: Directed at the Bridge of the Enterprise, Captain.
Kirk said: Security guard.
Uhura said: Security guard to the Bridge.
A woman materialises and smiles at them.
Kirk said: I'm Captain James Kirk. This is the Starship Enterprise.
The security guards rush in, she presses a button on her wrist band, the power goes off and everyone collapses. Then the same happens to the crew all over the ship. The woman walks over to Spock, and puts her hand on his head.
Later - after the opening titles - the power comes back on and everyone wakes up again.
Sulu said: What happened?
Kirk said: Helm status, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: No change from last reading, sir.
Kirk said: Condition reports from all decks, Lieutenant.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Spock. Where's Spock?
Mccoy said: Jim! Jim!
Kirk said: Yes, what is it?
Scene: McCoy's office.
Mccoy said: You'd better come down to Sickbay
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: Right now.
Kirk said: All right. On my way.
Uhura said: Deck five. Personnel, no damage.
Scene: Sickbay.
Spock is lying on a biobed, with a bandage around his head and life-support equipment over his torso.
Mccoy said: Now.
Chapel said: Functioning.
Mccoy said: Thank God.
Kirk said: Spock. What happened?
Chapel said: I found him on the table.
Kirk said: Like this?
Mccoy said: No, not like this.
Kirk said: What happened?
Mccoy said: I don't know.
Kirk said: You've got him on complete life support. Was he dead?
Mccoy said: He was worse than dead.
Kirk said: What do you mean?
Mccoy said: Jim.
Kirk said: Come on, Bones. What's the mystery?
Mccoy said: His brain is gone.
Kirk said: His what?
Mccoy said: It's been removed surgically.
Kirk said: How could he survive?
Mccoy said: It's the greatest technical job I've ever seen. Every nerve ending in the brain must've been neatly sealed. Nothing ripped, nothing torn, no bleeding. It's a medical miracle.
Kirk said: If his brain is missing, then Spock is dying.
Mccoy said: No. That incredible Vulcan physique hung on until the life-support cycle took over. His body lives. The autonomic functions continue. But there is no mind.
Kirk said: That girl.
Scott said: Aye.
Mccoy said: What girl?
Kirk said: From that ship. She took it. I don't know why, or where, but she must have taken it. Bones, how long can you keep him functioning?
Mccoy said: I can't give you any guarantee.
Kirk said: That's not good enough, Doctor.
Mccoy said: If it happened to any of us, I'd say indefinitely. But Vulcan physiology limits what I can do. Spock's body is more dependent on that tremendous brain for life support.
Kirk said: Then we'll take him with us.
Mccoy said: Take him? Take him where?
Kirk said: In search of his brain, Doctor. From what you say, the moment we find it we must restore it to his body, or we lose him.
Mccoy said: Jim, where are you going to look? In this whole galaxy, where are you going to look for Spock's brain? How are you going to find it?
Kirk said: I'll find it.
Mccoy said: Even if you do, I can't restore it. I don't have the medical technique.
Kirk said: It was taken out. It can be put back in.
Mccoy said: But I don't know how.
Kirk said: The thief that took it has the knowledge. I'll force it out of her.
Mccoy said: If you don't find it in twenty four hours, you'd better forget the whole thing, Jim.
Kirk said: You and Scotty have Spock ready.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: I've got it again. An ion trail matching when we first saw her.
Kirk said: Where does the trail lead to?
Chekov said: System Sigma Draconis.
Kirk said: Lock on, Mister Sulu. Maximum speed.
Sulu said: Warp six.
Kirk said: No question about the trail?
Sulu said: No mistake, sir.
Captain's log, stardate 5431.4. for fifteen hours and twenty minutes we have been following the ion trail of the spaceship that has Spock's brain. Time left to us, eight hours and forty minutes.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Captain, I've lost the trail.
Kirk said: All scanners, extreme sweep.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Well?
Chekov said: Nothing, sir.
Uhura said: No signal at all, Captain.
Sulu said: It's gone, sir. A sudden deaction shift.
Kirk said: We've lost her trail, but she went into that system. Mister Chekov, put a schematic of Sigma Draconis on the screen.
Chekov said: Aye, Captain.
Kirk said: Read out, Mister Chekov?
Chekov said: Sun, spectral type, Gamma nine. Nine planets, three of them, Class M possessing sapient life according to reports and long-range scanning.
Kirk said: She was breathing our air. She must've gone to one of them. Show us the three Class-M planets. Mister Chekov.
Chekov gets up and goes to the viewscreen to point out the relevant items.
Chekov said: The one on the left, number three, rates letter B on the industrial scale.
Kirk said: Earth equivalent approximately 1485.
Chekov said: Yes, sir. Second planet Class M, number four, rates letter G.
Kirk said: The year 2030.
Sulu said: But that ship, Captain, either it was many years ahead of us or the most incredible design fluke in history.
Kirk said: Third Class M planet, Mister Chekov.
Chekov said: Number six. No sign of industrial development. At last report, in a Glacial Age. Sapient life plentiful, but on a most primitive level.
Kirk said: Now. as I understand it, Mister Chekov, there are three Class-M planets,
Chekov said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Not one of which is capable of launching an interstellar flight,
Chekov said: No, sir.
Kirk said: Yet one of them accomplished it.
Chekov said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Thank you, Mister Chekov.
Uhura said: Captain, I'm picking up high energy generation on planet six.
Kirk said: That's the primitive glaciated planet.
Chekov said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: The source of it?
Uhura said: It could be natural. Volcanic activity, steam, any number of causes. But it's very regular.
Kirk said: What do your surface readings show, Mister Chekov?
Chekov said: No sign of organised civilisation. Primitive humanoids picked up at irregular intervals.
Kirk said: With regular pulsations of generated energy?
Chekov said: I can't explain it, sir.
Kirk said: I can't afford to guess wrong. I've got to choose the right planet, get there, find the brain. Eight hours and thirty five minutes.
Kirk said: Recommendations, Mister Chekov.
Chekov said: Sigma Draconis Three. It's closest, heaviest population.
Sulu said: But a technological rating of only three. They couldn't possibly have put that ship we saw into space.
Chekov said: None of these planets could.
Sulu said: I say planet four, Captain. At least planet four is ahead of three technologically.
Kirk said: But advanced ion propulsion is beyond even our capabilities. It'd be a miracle if they had developed it.
Uhura said: What would they want with his brain? What would they want with Mister Spock's brain? What use is it?
Kirk said: Yes.
Uhura said: Why do they want it?
Kirk said: Yes. Why would they want it? Eight hours and thirty four minutes. Planet six is glaciated, you say?
Chekov said: Several thousand years at least. Only the tropical zone is ice-free.
Kirk said: But the energy. Regular. It's there. It's real.
Uhura said: Yes, sir. It doesn't make sense, but it's there.
Kirk said: Have the transporter room stand by. I'm taking a landing party down to planet six.
Uhura said: Aye, aye, sir.
Sulu said: A hunch, Captain?
Kirk said: A hunch, Mister Sulu.
Chekov said: What if you guess wrong, Captain?
Kirk said: If I guess wrong, Mister Spock is dead. Spock will die.
Captain's log, stardate 4351.5. We are beaming down to a primitive glaciated planet in the Sigma Draconis star system. Time left to us to find Spock's brain, eight hours and twenty nine minutes.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk, Scott, Chekov and two security guards beam onto the rocky planet.
Kirk said: Suit temperatures to seventy two. Life-form readings, Mister Spock? (gets a look) Mister Scott?
Scott said: Scattered. Widely spaced. Humanoid, all right. On the large side.
Kirk said: Watch out. We know their development is primitive.
Scott said: Aye.
Kirk said: Read out, Mister Chekov.
Chekov said: No structures, Captain. No mechanised objects that I can read. No surface consumption or generation of energy. Atmosphere is perfectly all right, of course. Temperature, a high maximum of forty. Livable.
Kirk said: You have a thick skin.
Scott said: Captain! There's someone, something out there in the rocks. Five of them. Humanoid, large.
Kirk said: Phasers on stun. I want them conscious.
The group of bearded, skin clad males with clubs move carefully towards the Starfleet party.
Kirk said: Fire only on my signal. Flank out.
The primitives suddenly leap up from behind rocks, throwing stones and their clubs. Kirk fires, and stuns the leader. The rest run away.
Kirk said: We mean you no harm. We're not your enemies, we're your friends. We only wish to talk to you.
Morg said: You are not the Others?
Kirk said: No. We come from a far place. We are men.
Morg said: Men?
Kirk said: Like yourselves.
Morg said: You are small, like the Others.
Kirk said: Who are the Others?
Morg said: Givers of pain and delight.
Kirk said: Do they live here with you?
Morg said: No. They come. They give pain and delight.
Kirk said: Do they come from the sky?
Morg said: They are here. You will see. The Others will come for you. They come for all like us.
Kirk said: Do they come for your women as well?
Morg said: Women?
Kirk said: The female of your kind.
Morg said: Your words say nothing.
Kirk said: Don't you have a mate?
Morg said: Mate?
Scott said: A companion.
Kirk said: Will you take us where we can find the Others?
Morg said: (afraid) No one wants to find them.
Kirk said: We do. We want to find them. Take us there and we'll let you go.
Chekov said: Captain, five hundred metres in that direction there's a foundation under the surface. A huge one. Registrations all over the place.
Kirk said: Buildings?
Chekov said: Yes, sir. Immensely old, completely buried. But they were here once.
Kirk said: Somewhere down there is where the Others live. Scotty, see if you can find a way down.
Scott said: Aye, sir.
Morg said: No! No! No, do not go there! No! No!
Kirk said: It's all right.
He struggles briefly with the Morg, who escapes and runs off.
Kirk said: It's all right. Let him go.
Chekov said: What could the Others do to cause such terror?
Kirk said: What was it he said, pain and delight?
Chekov said: A peculiar mixture.
Kirk said: A dead and buried city on a planet in a glacial age.
Chekov said: And the male humanoid who doesn't know the meaning of the word female.
Scott said: Captain!
Scene: Cave entrance.
Scott said: Over here, sir. There's food in there and a whole pile of other stuff. A storehouse for our muscular friends.
They step inside carefully.
Scene: Cave.
Kirk said: I don't think so. Scotty.
There is a pair of photoelectric cells creating an invisible trip wire across the front of the supplies.
Kirk said: Metal. Forged, tempered. Our apish friends didn't make these. What do you think?
Scott said: It could be a warning device to keep those creatures away from the food.
Kirk said: Or the food could be a lure set by the Others to bring them in here.
Scott said: In that case, the beam would be a signal.
Kirk said: And this cave a trap.
Chekov said: If it will trap the creatures for the Others, Captain, won't it trap us, too?
Kirk said: Exactly.
Scene: Cave entrance.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise.
Uhura said: Enterprise. Uhura here.
Kirk said: Have Doctor McCoy beam down immediately.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Mister Chekov, you and the security team will remain here at the entrance. We'll be in constant contact with you.
Chekov said: Aye, sir.
McCoy and Spock beam down. Spock is in a brown overall, and has a device on his head. McCoy is holding a remote control unit with coloured buttons. He presses one and Spock turns left to face us.
Kirk said: All right, Bones. Bring him along.
Scott said: Keep him close to the right.
Scene: Cave.
Kirk said: Ready?
He steps across the beam and a metal shutter slams down, sealing the cave entrance. The 'elevator room' drops rapidly.
Mccoy said: Call Chekov and tell him to send my stomach down.
Scene: Cave entrance.
Chekov said: It might be a long wait. We may as well be comfortable.
He uses his phaser to heat a rock, and they warm their hands in its glow.
Scene: Cave.
Kirk said: Phasers on stun.
Scott said: Captain, that power we picked up above, we're getting closer.
Kirk said: A lot of it?
Scott said: Enough to push this planet out of orbit.
Kirk said: What source?
Scott said: Either a nuclear pile a hundred miles across or
Kirk said: Or what?
Scott said: Ion power.
Kirk said: We're slowing down.
The door opens, and there is a woman in yellow in the corridor. She reaches to her wrist band, but Kirk stuns her first. He takes her wrist band.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: Is she all right?
Mccoy said: I'll have her talking in a minute.
Luma said: You do not belong here. You are not Morg.
Kirk said: Who's in charge? I wish to speak to him.
Luma said: Him? What is him?
Kirk said: What have you done with Spock's brain? Where've you taken it?
Luma said: You are not Morg or Eymorg. I know nothing about a brain.
Kirk said: You're lying!
Mccoy said: She's not, Jim. No change in reading. She doesn't know.
Kirk said: (to Scott) See what you can pick up on your communicator.
Scott said: Aye.
Kirk said: We don't want to hurt you. What is this place?
Luma said: This place is here.
Kirk said: Who are you?
Luma said: I am Luma. I am Eymorg. You are not Eymorg. You are not Morg. What are you?
Mccoy said: Jim, it's no use. You'll get nothing out of that one. Hers is the mind of a child.
Scott said: Captain, I've got something, but I can't quite get a fix on it.
Luma tries to get away, but McCoy grabs her.
Spock said: Fascinating. Activity without end, but with no volition.
Kirk said: Spock, is that you?
Spock said: Captain? Captain Kirk?
Kirk said: Yes, Spock. Yes.
Spock said: Captain, there is a definite pleasurable experience connected with the hearing of your voice.
Mccoy said: Where are you, Spock?
Spock said: Is that you, Doctor McCoy, and are you with the Captain?
Mccoy said: Where else would I be?
Scott said: Mister Spock, where are you?
Spock said: Engineer Scott as well. Unfortunately, I do not know where I am.
Kirk said: We'll get you, Spock. It won't be long.
Spock said: A practical idea, Captain. It seems unlikely that I shall be able to get to you.
Kirk said: Quickly!
They head off down the corridor, Scott controlling Spock's body. Then around a corner comes a woman in purple with two Morg in uniforms.
Kirk said: There she is. That's the one. What have you done with Spock's brain?
The woman in purple uses her wrist band to knock out the men. Only Spock is left standing.
Captain's Log, stardate 5431.6. Immediately after making contact with Spock's brain, Doctor McCoy, Engineer Scott, and myself were taken prisoner inside a highly complex civilisation hundreds of metres below the surface of planet Sigma Draconis Seven. The primitive creature we encountered above warned us about the givers of pain and delight and the frightening consequences of being captured by them.
Scene: Council room.
Luma and other women are present, and occasionally giving pieces of food to the men standing around. Our landing party are still unconscious, and sitting on stools. The woman in purple comes in, and four women sit at the L shaped table. She presses the green button twice, and they wake up. All the men have belts with green buckles on them.
Kara said: What are you? Why are you here? You have something to speak?
Kirk said: What have you done with Spock's brain?
Kara said: We do not know Spock.
Kirk said: This is Spock. You saw him on the ship. You have his brain. It must be restored to him immediately. What have you done with it?
Kara said: Ah, yes, brain. You spoke to Luma also of brain, but we do not understand.
Kirk said: I do not know about Luma, but you were on the Enterprise. I saw you.
Kara said: I do not know these things you speak of.
Kirk said: You came to my ship!
Kara said: We know only here below and here above. This is our place. You are not Morg. You are stranger.
Kirk said: I saw you on my ship.
Mccoy said: Jim, she may not remember or even really know. Disassociation could be complete. It doesn't seem possible she could have performed surgery on Spock.
Kirk said: No, it doesn't.
Kara said: You hurt Luma. It is not permitted again to hurt anyone.
Kirk said: Sorry. We don't want to hurt anyone.
Kara said: If you wish to return to your home, you may go.
Kirk said: No. We'll stay here and learn about you and tell you of us.
Mccoy said: Yes, for instance, above it's cold and harsh. And below, it's warm. The air is fresh.
Scott said: Aye. There's no sun, but there's light.
Kirk said: I wish to talk to those in charge.
Kara said: In charge?
Kirk said: Yes, the organisers, the managers. The leader of your people.
Kara said: I am leader. There is no other.
Scott said: That's impossible. Who built the machines?
Mccoy said: Who are the doctors? Who operates?
Kirk said: Who controls this complex?
Kara said: Control? Controller?
Kirk said: Yes, the Controller. The Controller. Who controls? I would like to meet, to see him.
Kara said: No. It is not permitted. Never! Controller is alone, apart. We serve Controller. No other is permitted near.
Kirk said: We intend no harm.
Kara said: You have come to destroy us.
Kirk said: No, no, no. I promise you.
Mccoy said: We just want to talk to somebody about Spock's brain. That's all.
Kara said: Brain and brain! What is brain? It is Controller, is it not?
Mccoy said: Yes. Yes, in a way it is. The human brain controls the individual's functions.
Kirk said: Bones. Scotty. Spock's brain controls
Mccoy said: It's not possible.
Kirk said: Great leader. Great leader! (He kneels in front of Kara.) We come from a far place to learn from your Controller.
Kara said: You lie! You know me. You have said that. You came to take back the Controller.
Kirk said: He is our friend. You must take us to him. We beg you. Soon it will be too late.
Luma said: Do not take them, Kara. Do not take them to the Controller.
Kara said: They will be prevented.
Kirk said: You must take us.
A single press of the green button and they collapse, writhing in agony.
Kara said: I must learn what to do. (to Luma) Come with me. You will keep them here.
Guard said: Yes, mistress.
The women - sorry, Eymorg - leave.
Ship's log. Lieutenant Sulu recording. I am holding the Enterprise in orbit about planet Sigma Draconis Seven. Captain Kirk's hunch that Spock's brain is on this planet appears to be correct. Ensign Chekov remains on the surface to act as liaison between the Captain and the Enterprise.
{Council room]
Kirk said: I never felt anything like that. Every nerve in my body was on fire.
Mccoy said: I wouldn't believe the human organism could take such pain.
Scott said: These are on to stay for a while. Must be a magnetic lock of some kind.
Kirk said: No wonder the Morgs are so obedient, and terrified.
A Morg blocks the doorway.
Kirk said: How is this place kept functioning by the primitive minds we've met?
Their equipment is laid out on a table, but another Morg stops Kirk getting to it.
Scott said: Those women could never have set up anything as complex as this has to be. Why, that takes engineering genius. But there's no sign of engineering genius in any of those women.
Kirk said: They were smart enough to invent these training devices. What a way to maintain control over a man.
Scott said: Pain and delight, he said up above.
Mccoy said: I'm sure you noticed the delight aspect of this place.
Kirk said: Yes, I certainly did notice those delightful aspects. But that too was strictly under command of the women.
Scott said: How does Spock's brain fit into this?
Kirk said: With a communicator, we might be able to find out. This fellow is keeping us from our property.
Scott said: Isn't there a way to correct that situation?
Kirk said: I certainly think that science might provide an answer.
Mccoy said: It does, Captain.
Kirk said: Agreed, Doctor.
Kirk hits the Morg by the table while Scott and McCoy take on the one by the door. It isn't easy, but finally the Captain triumphs.
Kirk said: Science will triumph. Come on, Scotty. Bones, give them something to keep them out for a while. (into communicator) Spock. Spock. Come on, Spock. Spock, you were on this frequency, Spock.
Spock said: Yes, Captain, I am still here. Have you returned to the Enterprise?
Kirk said: No. We might be able to locate you, if you gave us some idea of what they were using you for. Is it medical?
Spock said: I am not certain. I seem to have a body which stretches into infinity.
Scott said: Body? Why, you have none.
Spock said: Then what am l?
Mccoy said: You are a disembodied brain.
Spock said: Fascinating. It could explain much, Doctor. My medulla oblongata is hard at work apparently breathing, apparently pumping blood, apparently maintaining a normal physiologic temperature.
Kirk said: Spock, we don't have time for that.
Spock said: Why are you endangering your lives by coming here?
Kirk said: We came to put you back. Where are you?
Spock said: Back where?
Kirk said: Back into your body. We brought it along with us.
Spock said: Thoughtful, Captain, but probably impractical. While I might trust the doctor to remove a splinter or lance a boil, I do not believe he has the knowledge to restore a brain.
Mccoy said: Thank you.
Spock said: No denigration intended, Doctor McCoy. That skill does not yet exist in the galaxy.
Kirk said: The skill to remove it exists right where we are. Restoring it must also be possible. That's why we've got to get to you as quickly as we can.
Spock said: Captain, I appreciate the risks you are taking on my behalf, but I must insist they are worthwhile only if there is a reasonable chance for success. Let me ask you, how much time has elapsed since
Kirk said: Eighteen hours and twelve minutes.
Spock said: Doctor McCoy must've told you that twenty four hours is the maximum my body can
Mccoy said: I told him.
Kirk said: That leaves us exactly five hours and forty eight minutes, Spock.
Spock said: It does seem all too brief a time to develop such skills, does it not?
Kirk said: Yes. Very brief. That's why we must get to you immediately. Beam us a signal so we can home in on you.
Spock said: Acknowledged.
Scott said: Got it.
Kirk said: Bones. (Spock's body stands up and they walk out of the room)
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: Oh, Spock, one question.
Spock said: Yes, Captain.
Kirk said: We've got pain-giving devices attached to us. Can you tell us how to get them off.
Spock said: I shall give it top priority.
They walk along.
Spock said: Captain, I have an answer for you. It seems your pain bands are manually controlled. The red button on a bracelet releases them. I know that does not make much sense.
Kirk said: Oh, yes it does, Spock. (further along) Keep concentrating, Spock. Keep concentrating, Spock.
Scott said: Must be in there, Captain.
Scene: Control Room.
Kara is in there, with her back to the door. She hears them enter, and gives them pain.
Mccoy said: Jim.. Spock. No pain.
Kirk manages to get to the control box that McCoy dropped and get Spock's body to walk over to Kara.
Kara said: No. Go away.
Spock holds her wrists, then finally presses the red button. The belts fly off.
Kara said: We will die. You must not take the Controller away. We will all die. The Controller is young and powerful. Perfect!
Spock said: How very flattering.
Kara said: You will give life to my people for ten thousand years to come.
Kirk said: You'll find another Controller.
Kara said: The old one is finished! There is no other than this and will not be another for ten thousand years.
Kirk said: Spock, you're in a black box tied in with light rays into a complex control panel.
Spock said: Fascinating.
Kirk said: You say you're breathing, pumping blood, maintaining temperature? Is it possible that you're re-circulating air, running heating plants, purifying water?
Spock said: Indeed, Captain. That is unquestionably part of what I am doing.
Kara said: He must stay. He must stay!
Kirk said: He will not stay. (He makes Spock release her, and grabs her himself, taking off her bracelet.) Now, you took his brain. You will put it back. How did you do it?
Kara said: I do not know.
Mccoy said: She couldn't, Jim. Her mind is functioning on a very simple level. Mental faculties here seem to be almost atrophied because of non-use.
Kirk said: She was on the Enterprise. She must have done it. How did you do it?
Kara said: It was the old knowledge.
Kirk said: How do you get the old knowledge?
Kara said: I put upon my head the Teacher.
Kirk said: What is the Teacher?
Kara said: The great Teacher of all the ancient knowledge.
There is a transparent helmet with what look like a whole lot of syringes sticking through it.
Spock said: If I may explain, Captain. She refers to the tape storehouse of knowledge of the builders of this place. I scan it. A most impressive store.
Kirk said: How does it work? Show us.
KARA; I cannot.
Kirk said: You must tell us.
Kara said: I cannot. Only by command of the ancients may I understand.
Kirk said: How does it work? Show us! We'll protect you.
Spock said: It is a device with feeding circuits. They lead into the mind of the priestess leader. Its use is strictly predetermined by the builders.
Kirk forces her into the helmet.
Kara said: No! The knowledge is forbidden! I must not know the secret! I will be punished!
A control panel comes on and she goes quiet.
Kara said: (confident, assured) Gentlemen, the Controller's explanation of the functioning of the Teacher is essentially correct. However, he is giving no credit to me. I provide the means whereby the knowledge is used. Without me, Captain
Mccoy said: Without you there could be no delicate miracle that kept Spock's brain alive.
Kara said: Thank you, Doctor. That was very gracious.
Mccoy said: Yes. From the very first, I appreciated your ability.
Kara said: Good, Captain Kirk. Then you also appreciate that without the Teacher, I would not have the knowledge to use that which you have thoughtfully provided.
She points a phaser at him.
Scott said: That phaser is set to kill.
Kara said: So it is. That is the knowledge you have brought me. Do not move. If your weapon kills, it will kill you.
Kirk said: We're not the first to bring you the knowledge of killing. If you continue, you'll kill Spock.
Kara said: The Controller die? The Controller will live for ten thousand years, and we shall give him all our devotion.
Kirk said: But Spock will be dead. His body's dying this minute.
Kara said: Why do you not understand that the need of my people for their Controller is greater than your need for your friend.
Kirk said: No one may kill a man. Not for any purpose. It cannot be condoned.
He reaches for the phaser.
Kara said: Do not! I do not know killing. I do not wish to kill.
Scott groans and faints, distracting her so Kirk can grab the phaser.
Kara said: The commandment must be fulfilled.
Kirk said: You must help us. When you came to the ship, you had the knowledge. Yet, when we came here, you didn't.
Kara said: Correct.
Kirk said: How long does the knowledge last?
Kara said: Three of your hours.
Mccoy said: It would be just enough time.
Kirk said: If you had the knowledge, could you restore what you've taken?
Kara said: I would not.
Kirk said: You must help us. You must restore with that knowledge what you have taken.
Kara said: No!
Kirk said: You must put back what you have taken.
Kara said: I will not betray my people. The Controller will stay.
Mccoy said: Jim, it worked for her. It might work for me.
Spock said: She is an alien. The configurations of her brain are different. It could cause irreparable damage to your human brain, Doctor.
Mccoy said: I'm a surgeon already. If I could learn these techniques, I might be able to retain them.
Spock said: Captain, you might lose the doctor that way.
Mccoy said: He might, but we're sure to lose you if I don't try.
Spock said: I cannot allow you to jeopardise your life for me.
Mccoy said: Spock, didn't you hear? I might be able to retain and bring these techniques to the world. Jim, isn't it worth that risk? Wouldn't you insist upon taking such a risk yourself?
Kirk said: Go ahead, Doctor. Put the Teacher on.
Kara said: No!
McCoy goes over to the device, and Kirk adjusts it onto his head. McCoy winces in pain as knowledge is fed into his brain, then falls to his knees.
Mccoy said: Of course. Of course. A child could do it. A child could do it.
Captain's log, Stardate 5432.3. Doctor McCoy is proceeding to restore Spock's brain. Our problem, we do not know how long his increased surgical knowledge will stay with him. Any additional attempt to use the teaching device is impossible. It would kill my medical officer.
Scene: Control room.
The top of Spock's head is concealed by a wall, which McCoy is working behind.
Scott said: I've never seen anything like it. He's operating at warp speed. I'd like a try at that teacher myself.
Kara said: You will have him back and we will be destroyed.
Kirk said: No. You won't be destroyed. You'll be without your Controller for the first time, but you'll be much better off, I think.
Kara said: We will die.
Kirk said: No, you'll live and develop as you should have. All this shouldn't have been done for you. Now the women here below and the men here above will control together.
Kara said: They will not help us without the pain.
Kirk said: There are other ways. You'll discover them. You must move to the surface, you understand.
Kara said: We will die above in the cold.
Kirk said: No, you won't. You'll learn to build houses, to keep warm, to work. We'll help you for a while. Humans have survived under worse conditions. It's a matter of evolution. You'll be fine.
McCoy is starting to pause and think.
Scott said: Captain Kirk!
Kirk said: What is it?
Scott said: He's forgetting.
Mccoy said: I can't. I
Kirk said: Bones? Bones?
Mccoy said: All the ganglia, the nerves. There are a million of them. What am I supposed to do? What am I supposed to do?
Kirk said: Bones, you can't stop now.
Mccoy said: I'm trying to thread a needle with a sledgehammer. What am I supposed to do? I can't remember. I don't remember.
Kirk said: Bones?
Mccoy said: No one can restore a brain.
Kirk said: You could. A while ago it was child's play.
Captain's log, supplemental. Our race against time to save Spock's life may prove futile. Doctor McCoy has lost the surgical knowledge he obtained from the teacher. He has been drawing on his own skills and surgical techniques in an attempt to continue the operation, but he is faltering and uncertain. In a desperate hope that he can draw on Spock's brain for assistance, I instructed Doctor McCoy to give priority to connecting Spock's vocal chords.
Scene: Control room.
Kirk said: Well?
Mccoy said: He's dying, and I can't stop it.
Spock said: (hoarse) Yes. Doctor McCoy.
Mccoy said: Spock?
Spock said: If you will finish reconnecting my speech centre, I might be able to help.
Mccoy said: Speech centre.
Spock said: Yes. That's correct. One thing at a time. Ah, ah, mmm. (normal voice) That's better. Now, Doctor. Try the sonic separator.
Mccoy said: Sonic separator.
Spock said: Yes, I believe I already have some sensation of feeling. Please stimulate the nerve endings and observe the physical reactions, one by one. In each case, I shall tell you when the probe is correct. You will then seal using the tri-laser connector.
Mccoy said: Tri-laser connector. Ready?
Spock said: Ready.
Mccoy said: Right forefinger.
Spock said: (twitching) Correct.
Mccoy said: Right wrist.
Spock said: Correct.
Mccoy said: Right elbow.
Spock said: Correct. Very good, Doctor.
Mccoy said: I'll never live this down. This Vulcan is telling me how to operate.
Later
Mccoy said: Closed.
Kirk said: Well?
Mccoy said: How do I know? I could have made a thousand mistakes. Sealing nerve endings, joining ganglia. The fluid balance is correct, but I don't know.
Spock sits up and stretches.
Spock said: Congratulations, Doctor. And thank you.
Kirk said: How do you feel, Spock?
Spock said: On the whole, Captain, I believe I am quite fit. Fascinating. A remarkable example of a retrograde civilisation. At the peak, advanced beyond any of our capabilities and now operating at this primitive level which you saw. And it all began thousands of years ago when a glacial age reoccurred. This underground complex was developed for the women. The men remained above, and a male-female schism took place. A fascinating cultural development of a kind which never
Mccoy said: I knew it was wrong. I shouldn't have done it.
Kirk said: What's that?
Mccoy said: I should have never reconnected his mouth.
A slanted eyebrow hits the ceiling.
Kirk said: Well, we took the risk, Doctor.
Spock said: (to Kara, amid laughter) As I was saying, a fascinating cultural development of the kind which hasn't been seen in ages. The last such occurrence took place on old Earth, when the Romans were warring with the ....