Plato's Stepchildren
Stardate: 5784.2
Original Airdate: 22 Nov, 1968
Captain's log, stardate 5784.2. We are responding to desperate distress calls from an unknown planet. My science officer Mister Spock is unable to account for this, since he reported no signs of life on the planet. It is rich in kironide deposits, a very rare and long-lasting source of great power.
Scene: Room.
Kirk, Spock and McCoy have beamed down into a place of Greek columns and plenty of marble.
Alexander said: (echoy voice and a huge shadow on the wall) Are you from the spaceship Enterprise?
Kirk said: That's right.
The huge shadow is an optical illusion. The person who walks in is a dwarf with a normal voice.
Alexander said: Alexander, at your service. I sing, I dance, I play all variety of games, and I'm a good loser, a very good loser. Please, sir, try to bear that in mind. Now, would you please accompany me?
Kirk said: Who are the inhabitants of this planet?
Alexander said: Oh, Platonians. I'm sure you've never heard of us. Our native star is Sahndara. Millennia ago, just before it went nova, we managed to escape. Our leader liked Plato's ideas Plato, Platonius. See? In fact, our present philosopher-king, Parmen, sometimes calls us Plato's children, although we sometimes think of ourselves more as Plato's stepchildren. Excuse me. Someone's waiting for you.
He stiffens, and scurries off backwards as if dragged by an invisible leash. The landing party follow.
Scene: Parmen's chamber.
A man is lying on a couch.
Philana said: Welcome to our republic. Whom among you is the physician?
Mccoy said: I am. What's the problem?
Philana said: My spouse. His leg. Come this way.
Mccoy said: Well, what happened to that leg?
Parmen said: I suppose I scratched it.
Mccoy said: I don't understand. This should have been attended to immediately.
Parmen said: Sheer ignorance. Is there anything you can do?
Mccoy said: Well, we're certainly going to try. The infection is massive. Let me give you a hypo to ease the pain.
McCoy opens a pouch, and the hypo flies out on it's own.
Parmen said: Where?
Mccoy said: In the arm.
The injection is given without human hand.
Alexander said: Philana, they came to help. They deserve better than to die.
His hand is stuffed into his mouth.
Philana said: Alexander, you talk too much.
Captain's log, stardate 5784.3. Doctor McCoy is endeavouring to treat the leader of a strange group of people. When their planet novaed, millennia ago, they transported themselves to Earth in the time of Socrates and Plato. After the death of the Greek civilisation they idolised, they came to this planet and created for themselves a utopia patterned after it.
Scene: Parmen's chamber.
Parmen said: What is it? What is your prognosis, Doctor?
Mccoy said: I'll let you know when I have the results. And from now on, it would be better if I handled the instruments without your help.
Kirk said: Bones, I can't understand why a simple cut like that could become so serious.
Mccoy said: Neither do I, but it has. How do I knock out an infection when the tricorder doesn't show any information on Platonius bacteria? All I can do, and this is going to take time, is to try to match his bugs with a known strain and hope.
Alexander is playing a near life-size game like chess with two other men.
Alexander said: Your Pan is in jeopardy.
Eraclitus said: (moving an Urn by thought) It isn't now. I win.
Dioniyde said: Well played, Eraclitus.
Eraclitus said: I thank you, Dioniyde.
They leave. KIRK: This psychokinetic power of yours, how long have you had it?
Philana said: Two and a half. Ever since our arrival here on Platonius.
Spock said: How is the power transmitted?
Philana said: Brain waves.
Spock said: Do these waves cease while you are asleep?
Philana said: No, not if they're embedded in the unconscious.
Mccoy said: What about medicine? Why no doctors?
Philana said: We haven't had any pressing need for the medical arts. You see, while still on Sahndara, we instituted a mass eugenics programme. We're the result. Pared down to a population of thirty eight, we're perfect for our utopia. We're bred for contemplation and self-reliance. And longevity. How old would you say I am? Don't be afraid. I'm not vain.
Spock said: Thirty five.
Philana said: That old? I stopped aging at thirty. Well, anyway, you're off by two thousand years. I'm two thousand three hundred years old. We were married very young. I was only a hundred and seventeen, and he was a hundred and twenty eight. So you see, we scarcely have to move anymore, let alone work.
Kirk said: That's why you have no resistance?
Philana said: That's right. A break in the skin or a cut can be fatal.
A column falls over and breaks. The 'chess' pieces start flying around the room.
Spock said: Fascinating. I believe we're experiencing the psychokinetic manifestations of Parmen's delirium.
Scene: Bridge.
Even the Enterprise is rocking.
Scott said: Scott to Captain Kirk.
Scene: Parmen's chamber.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Captain, we're in the midst of a storm.
Scene: Parmen's chamber.
Scott said: No discernible cause, and I've never seen anything like it. There's
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Ten scale turbulence right now. Emergency gyros and stabilisers at maximum.
Scene: Parmen's chamber.
Scott said: If this keeps up, Captain, we can't last!
Kirk said: Engines at full speed. Get her out of orbit and into space.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: I've tried that, sir. She's locked tight.
Scene: Parmen's chamber.
Kirk said: Then there's nothing you can do but batten down and weather.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Right, Captain.
Scene: Parmen's chamber.
Kirk said: Parmen's mind is not (something flies past them very fast) Watch it! He's not only throwing around furniture, he's tearing up the Enterprise as well. Bones, knock him out fast.
McCoy tries to give the injection, but gets flung away by Parmen's mind. Alexander gets jerked around too.
Alexander said: Help! Save me!
Kirk said: Alexander. Stand behind me.
Kirk takes psychic punches.
Alexander said: His mind will find me anyhow. Don't save him. Let him die. The others will kill each other trying to take his place.
Kirk said: Hurry up with that shot!
Philana said: Now, Doctor!
McCoy is able to give the injection.
Alexander said: (apparently throttling himself) I can't breathe. I'm choking.
Kirk said: Bones! Shake him. Break his concentration.
Parmen passes out, and relaxes. Alexander can breath again.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise.
Scott said: Scott on the Enterprise.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: It's all right, Captain. The turbulence has abated.
Scene: Parmen's chamber.
Kirk said: Good. I think you'll find the orbit lock is broken as well. Assess damage and repair whatever is necessary.
Scott said: Aye, Captain.
Philana said: I don't know how I can ever thank you, not only for Platonius, but for myself.
Kirk said: No thanks is necessary.
Philana said: Alexander, show our guests to the south wing.
Kirk said: Oh, thank you, we must return to the ship.
Mccoy said: I think I'd better wait until the fever breaks.
Kirk said: Well, in that case, we'll stay.
Scene: Guest room.
Alexander said: Anything you want, Just ask me. Anything.
Kirk said: Thank you, Alexander.
Alexander said: Think nothing of it. You saved my life. I think I should tell you that
Kirk said: Tell me what?
Alexander said: Well, just that I never knew any people like you existed.
Kirk said: Where is everyone?
Alexander said: They're all in chambers, meditating.
Kirk said: Alexander, are there other Platonians like you?
Alexander said: What do you mean, like me?
Kirk said: Who don't have the psychokinetic ability.
Alexander said: I thought you were talking about my size, because they make fun of me for my size. But, to answer your question, I'm the only one without it. I was brought here as the court buffoon. That's why I'm everybody's slave and I have to be ten places at once, and I never do anything right.
Spock said: How does one obtain the power?
Alexander said: As far as I know it just comes to you sometime after you're born. They say I'm a throwback, and I am, and so are you. I'm sorry. I shouldn't have said that.
Kirk said: Don't worry about it. We're happy without it.
Alexander said: You know, I believe you are. Listen, where you come from, are there a lot of people without the power and my size?
Kirk said: Alexander, where I come from, size, shape, or colour makes no difference, and nobody has the power.
Alexander said: Nobody? Somebody wants me.
And whirling round, he is dragged out of the room by that invisible leash of someone's mind.
Spock said: Captain, it will be very gratifying to leave here.
Kirk said: That might not be easy should Parmen die.
Spock said: Even if he shouldn't.
Kirk said: Yes. This utopia of theirs is one of the best-kept secret in the galaxy. Screening themselves from our sensors, locking us into orbit. All this adds up to a pattern.
McCoy enters, happy.
Mccoy said: Jim, my concoction actually worked. The fever's broken. And what recuperative powers. The infection's begun to drain already.
Spock said: Doctor McCoy, you may yet cure the common cold.
Kirk said: If ever there was a time to get out of here, it is now. Kirk to Enterprise. Scotty, come in.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Scott here, sir.
Kirk said: Prepare to beam us up.
Scott said: I'm afraid I can't do that, sir. Everything's frozen.
Scene: Guest room.
Kirk said: The turbulence hit you that hard?
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: It's not the turbulence, sir. Damage to the ship is minimal.
Kirk said: What caused it?
Scott said: I don't know, sir, and those are the facts.
Scene: Guest room.
Kirk said: Did you get up into space?
Scott said: No, sir. The orbit's locked tighter than ever.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: And subspace communication with Starfleet, it's completely severed.
Scene: Guest room.
Kirk said: All right, Scotty. I'll handle it down here. Stand by.
Scene: Parmen's chamber.
Alexander is entertaining his master by singing whist playing a lyre.
Alexander said: Great Pan sounds his horn. Marking time to the rhyme with his hoof, with his hoof. Forward, forward in our plan. We proceed as we began.
Kirk enters.
Alexander said: Reki-kekecks, reki-kekecks. Koobaks.
Kirk said: Your Excellency.
Parmen said: Parmen will do. Philosopher kings have no need of titles.
Kirk said: I would like to know why the ship's instrumentation and weaponry is frozen, and why the Enterprise is locked in orbit.
Parmen said: Captain, please. You are mistaken, I assure you.
Kirk said: Parmen, I've talked to the engineer aboard the ship. We've showed our good faith. Now you show yours. I want this ship released immediately.
Parmen said: The amenities, Captain. Allow me to remind you that I am the head of this principality. Guests do not come barging in here, making demands and issuing orders.
Kirk's phaser flies into Parmen's hand.
Kirk said: Guests? You don't know the meaning of the word. Guests aren't treated like common prisoners.
Parmen said: Do not take that tone with me.
Kirk is forced to slap his own face repeatedly.
Scene: Guest room.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise. Acknowledge. Acknowledge. Enterprise, come in. Enterprise. I can't raise them.
Spock said: Obviously Parmen does not wish any contact made with the Enterprise.
Mccoy said: He may still need the ship's medical stores. Why prevent contact?
Spock said: To shut out any knowledge of his brutal treatment of a Starfleet captain.
Kirk said: No, Mister Spock. One thing for certain. Parmen is not concerned with my dignity or safety.
Spock said: Agreed, Captain. And Parmen wouldn't have treated you so brutally if he had any intention of releasing you or the Enterprise.
McCoy suddenly stands up stiffly and moves towards the door.
Kirk said: Where are you going?
Mccoy said: I don't know. I don't want to go, but I can't help myself.
Kirk and Spock also move as if pulled along by something.
Scene: Parmen's chamber.
Alexander sounds a horn as the door opens and the unwilling three stagger in.
Philana said: Gentle spacemen, we are eternally in your debt. We've some trifles for you. Please accept them as tokens of our gratitude. They stem from the very source of our inspiration. To our noble captain, the shield carried by Pericles, as a symbol of gallant leadership.
The round shield flies to Kirk's arms.
Philana said: To our silent and cerebral Mister Spock, this kithara to pluck music, to soothe his ever-active brow.
It too flies to him.
Philana said: And lastly, to the physician Doctor McCoy, who saved Platonius and my spouse, this ancient collection of Greek cures, penned by Hippocrates himself.
A scroll wings it's way to McCoy.
Kirk said: Has the Enterprise been released yet?
Parmen said: Captain, wait. I know what you're thinking. My humble apologies. You were badly used. In my own defence, allow me to say that my illness was more profoundly disturbing that I myself realised. I am sure that you, too, have been out of sorts and have been driven to fits of temper and rage. Unlike you, however, what I think and feel, whether for good or ill, is instantly translated into reality. So please, find it in your heart to forgive me.
Kirk said: Certainly. Has the Enterprise been released yet?
Parmen said: It will be shortly.
Kirk said: Then good day, and thank you for the presents.
Parmen said: Not at all. But there is one final request. After my nearly fatal infection, it has become obvious to us all that we cannot afford to be without a skilled physician. Therefore we should like you, Doctor McCoy, to remain.
Mccoy said: I'm very sorry, but that's impossible.
Parmen said: Your duties will be extraordinarily light. You'll be free to read, meditate, conduct research, whatever you like. You'll want for nothing.
Mccoy said: The answer is no.
Parmen said: We should like to keep it cordial, but we are determined to have you stay, Doctor.
Kirk said: Doctor McCoy saved your life.
Parmen said: I am losing patience, Captain.
Kirk said: And you consider yourself a disciple of Plato?
Parmen said: We manage to live in peace and harmony.
Spock said: Whose harmony? Yours? Plato wanted truth and beauty, and above all, justice.
Parmen said: My dear Mister Spock, I admit that circumstances have forced us to make a few adaptations of Plato, but ours is the most democratic society conceivable. Anyone can, at any moment, be or do anything he wishes, even to becoming ruler of Platonius if his mind is strong enough.
Kirk said: And if his mind isn't strong enough, he gets torn apart like Alexander.
Parmen said: Oh, come now. We are not children. In your culture, justice is the will of the stronger. It is forced upon people by means of weapons and fleets of spaceships. Our justice is the will of the stronger mind, and I for one, consider it a vast improvement.
Kirk said: We don't use our weapons for the kind of brutality you practice.
Parmen said: Farewell, Captain.
Kirk said: Come on, Doctor. McCoy.
Mccoy said: I can't move, Jim. They're going to keep me here no matter what. Leave, please.
Kirk said: No. You're the doctor. They don't want to force you. They need your goodwill. They're trying
Parmen said: Captain, go while you still can.
Kirk said: We're not leaving until McCoy is released.
Parmen said: This is not the Enterprise. You are not in command, captain.
Philana said: Why even discuss it? Get rid of them.
Parmen said: No, my dear. That might offend the good doctor. You wish to stay? By all means. You can help us celebrate our anniversary. In the process, I hope we can persuade you to join our tiny republic.
Mccoy said: You won't persuade me.
Parmen said: I think we will.
McCoy is pulled over to sit beside Parmen and Philana. Laurel wreaths are thrown in front of Kirk and Spock, who are forced to kneel and put them on. Then standing again, they are made to dance around each other and 'sing' this rhyme.
Kirk said: I'm Tweedledee, he's Tweedledum.
Spock said: Two spacemen marching to a drum.
Kirk + Spock said: We slith among the mimsey toves, and gyre among the borogoves.
On their knees again.
Kirk said: You're not staying, McCoy. No matter what he tries to
Prostrate on the floor.
Kirk said: Being your slave, what should I do but tend upon the hours and times of your desire? I have no precious time at all to spend, nor services to do, till you
Mccoy said: Stop it! Don't do this to him, Parmen!
Kirk said: McCoy. No matter what he makes me say or do, the answer's no.
Mccoy said: No, Parmen! Stop it!
Kirk rolls in agony.
Parmen said: Well, Doctor?
Mccoy said: I have my orders.
Parmen said: As you wish, Doctor.
Kirk said: Is this your utopia, your grand vision of the future? You don't even (screams)
Parmen said: We've had enough or your moralising.
Mccoy said: And we've had too much of yours. I'll never get me to stay here.
Parmen said: You will be happy to stay. It takes a little time, Doctor, but you will be happy to stay.
Spock is forced to dance close to Kirk's head. Flamenco-style, I think, ending with a boot directly over Kirk's face. Then Spock is allowed to rest, and he starts to laugh heartily. He crawls over to Alexander, who cannot help but join in.
Mccoy said: He's a Vulcan. You can't force emotion out of him.
Philana said: You must be joking, Doctor.
Mccoy said: You'll destroy him.
Parmen said: We can't let him die laughing, can we?
Now Spock cries.
Mccoy said: I beg you.
Kirk said: Spock. Spock. Don't let them break you. Hold on. Don't
Alexander said: Parmen, they saved your life. I'm ashamed to be a Platonian. Ashamed!
Kirk is on all fours, like a horse, and Alexander has to climb on his back and ride him around the room. Kirk rears and neighs during this.
Parmen said: How can you let this go on?
Scene: Guest room.
Spock is very withdrawn. Alexander watches helplessly.
Kirk said: Can you do anything for him?
Mccoy said: There is no medicine that can help him. He'll have to come through this himself.
Spock said: I trust they did not injure you too much, Captain.
Kirk said: My muscles are sore, that's all.
Spock said: The humiliation must have been most difficult for you to bear. I can understand.
Mccoy said: The release of emotions, Mister Spock, is what keeps us healthy. Emotionally healthy, that is.
Spock said: That may be, Doctor. However, I have noted that the healthy release of emotion is frequently very unhealthy for those closest to you.
Kirk said: Which just goes to prove that there's no such thing as a perfect solution.
Spock said: So it would seem. Captain.
Kirk said: Yes, Spock.
Spock said: Do you still feel anger toward Parmen?
Kirk said: Great anger.
Spock said: And you, Doctor?
Mccoy said: Yes, Spock. And hatred.
Spock said: Then you must release it, gentlemen, as I must master mine. I might have seriously injured you, Captain, even killed you. They have evoked such great hatred in me, I cannot allow it to go further. I must master it. I must control.
Spock breaks a goblet with one hand.
Mccoy said: Jim. This is senseless. I've thought it over. I'm staying.
Kirk said: You can't.
Mccoy said: Parmen has promised me you'll be safe.
Kirk said: Promised? Parmen? He'd let us beam up to the Enterprise, and plunge the ship back into the atmosphere.
Mccoy said: Why? Why trick me?
Kirk said: Because, if he killed us outright in front of you, you'd retaliate. You're a doctor. You have the means. Bones, I know you're trying to do the right thing, but if any one of us escaped, Parmen knows Starfleet would never let this planet go unpunished. Sacrifice yourself by agreeing to stay, and you sign our death warrant.
Alexander said: He's right. I should have warned you. They were treating you the same way they treat me. Just like me, only you fight them. All the time, I thought it was me, my mind that couldn't move a pebble. They even told I was lucky they bothered keep me around at all, and I believed them. The arms and legs of everybody's whim. Look down, don't meet their eyes. Smile. Smile. These great people, they were gods to me. But you showed me what they really are. And now I know, don't you see. It's not me, it's not my size, it's them! It's them! It's them!
Alexander breaks an urn and takes a sharp shard of pottery.
Kirk said: Put it down.
Alexander said: No. This is the best thing for them.
Kirk said: Put it down. Do what I say.
Alexander said: I'm going to cut their I'm going to cut them. Parmen first, and they'll all get infected. But this time, listen, whatever they say, don't save them. Let them die.
Kirk said: Give it to me!
Alexander said: At least let me give them a taste of what they gave me. Please, they're going to kill you anyway. You know that.
Kirk said: In that case, what's the point in you dying too, Alexander? Give it to me.
Alexander said: That's the first time anybody ever thought of my life before his own. I should have told you when you first came here that they were going to kill you. Because I knew, but I was afraid. I was afraid.
Kirk said: That's all right. It's all right, Alexander. Listen, we haven't given up, and there may be something you can do to help.
Alexander said: Anything I can do to help, you just tell me.
Kirk said: All right. Did the Platonians always have this power?
Alexander said: No, not until we came to this planet.
Spock said: Alexander, it is possible for you to recall how long after you arrived here that that power began to develop?
Alexander said: How could I forget that? It was exactly six months and fourteen days after we got here that they started pushing me around.
Spock said: And would you know how many months' supplies you brought with you?
Alexander said: Well, four, I think. Or three.
Spock said: That's close enough, Alexander. Fascinating. Their power developed two or three months after they started eating the native foods.
Alexander said: That's right.
Spock said: Then it is logical to assume that there is a connection between the psychokinetic power and the eating of the native foods.
Mccoy said: Then why wouldn't Alexander have the same power as the others?
Spock said: Perhaps his system cannot absorb the crucial element.
Kirk said: Bones, I think it'd be a good idea if you took a reading of Alexander's blood.
Alexander said: Not that I'm afraid or anything, but will it hurt much?
Mccoy said: You won't even know it happened.
Kirk said: You still have a tricorder reading of Parmen's blood, don't you?
Mccoy said: Of course. Parmen possesses the highest order of psychokinetic ability, and Alexander the lowest, in the same environmental conditions.
Spock said: The probabilities are that Alexander was born with some biochemical deficiency relative to Platonius.
Mccoy said: I'll run both their blood samples through for a full comparative test on the tricorder.
Kirk said: And if our theory works out, we've got a weapon.
Mccoy said: The one significant difference between Parmen's blood and Alexander's is a concentration of kironide, broken down by pituitary hormone.
Kirk said: Kironide. It's a high-energy source. That could be it.
Spock said: The pituitary hormones confirm the hypothesis. They also regulate body growth.
Alexander said: Oh. You mean the same thing that kept me from having the power made me a dwarf?
Spock said: Yes. It's also obvious why Parmen kept this little utopia secret. Anyone coming down here and remaining long enough would acquire the power.
Kirk said: Exactly. McCoy, there must be a quick way of building up a concentration of kironide in our blood.
Mccoy said: It'll take some doing, but it is possible.
Kirk said: What are we waiting for?
McCoy takes a couple of ampoules from his bag, then hesitates.
Kirk said: What is it, Bones?
Mccoy said: Even if the kironide reaches the desired effect, it still may not help us get out of here.
Kirk said: Yes. There are thirty eight of them.
Spock said: The point is well taken. However, the psychokinetic power is not additive. If it were, considering the Platonians' hostile propensities, two or three of them would have combined forces centuries ago and deposed Parmen.
Alexander said: He's right. Do you know, Parmen says each has his own separate power frequency, because before when they've tried to combine their powers, and use them together, it never worked.
Mccoy said: I'm ready.
Kirk said: Let's not any waste time. Give us double the concentration in Parmen's bloodstream.
McCoy injects Kirk and Spock.
Spock said: The time factor concerns me. It may take days or even weeks before there's enough build up from the kironide to be of any benefit to us.
Kirk said: Yes. What about Alexander?
Mccoy said: Since the kironide's broken down and injected directly into his bloodstream, it should work on him as well as us. Better in fact, because he's acclimated.
Alexander said: Oh, no. Not after what they've done to me.
Kirk said: Why not? You could conceivably take Parmen's place and run the whole planet.
Alexander said: You think that's what I want? Become one of them? Become my own enemy? Just lie around like a big blob of nothing and have things done for me? I want to move around for myself. If I'm going to laugh or cry, I want do it for myself. You can keep your precious power. All I ask is one thing. If you do make it out of here, take me with you. Just drop me any place they never heard of kironide or Platonius.
Kirk said: Alexander.
Two figures beam in.
Kirk said: Nurse. Lieutenant Uhura.
The women try to speak, but no sound comes. Then they turn and leave the room.
Kirk said: I guess we weren't sufficiently entertaining.
Scene: Entertainment Chamber.
Uhura and Chapel are dressed in long robes. Kirk and Spock enter in short tunics wearing laurel wreaths.
Chapel said: Are we ever glad to see you.
Uhura said: We were forced in the transporter and beamed down. It was like becoming someone's puppet.
Chapel said: I thought I was sleepwalking. I couldn't stop myself. Captain, what is it? What's going on?
Kirk said: Spock, do you feel any effect of the kironide shot?
Spock said: I have experienced a slight flush, Captain.
Kirk said: So did l. Let's try a simple test. Concentrate on raising this plate of fruit. Nothing.
Shutters draw back to reveal their audience, the Platonians and McCoy.
Parmen said: Fellow academicians. Twenty five hundred years ago, a band of hearty vagabonds arrived on this barren, rough-hewn planet. There was a desperate hardship of backbreaking toil. And then a divine providence graced our genius and our dedication with the power of powers. And through it, our every need instantly materialised. We thereupon determined to form a utopian brotherhood. This night is indeed a festive occasion, for tonight, we welcome into that brotherhood its first new member.
Kirk said: Not yet, Parmen. You have to convince the doctor first.
Mccoy said: They'll never do it, Jim.
Parmen said: Doctor, please. You have destroyed the festive mood of the ladies. We must recapture it at once. I know. What would be better than a serenade from the laughing spaceman?
Spock, Uhura and Chapel are dragged over to a couch. Alexander plucks his lyre.
Spock said: (singing) Take care, young ladies, and value your wine. Be watchful of young men in their velvet prime.
Deeply they'll swallow from your finest kegs. Then swiftly be gone leaving bitter dregs. Ah, bitter dregs.
With smiling words and tender touch. Man offers little and asks for so much"
He loves in the breathless excitement of night, then leaves with your treasure in cold morning light. Ah, in cold morning light"
Parmen said: And now let the revels begin.
The four toys are paired up, and the furniture moves around. Chapel and Spock on one couch, Kirk and Uhura on the other. The men swap, then return.
Dioniyde said: Oh, how faithless and fickle.
Eraclitus said: Make up your minds.
Chapel said: I'm so ashamed. Please make them stop.
Spock said: We have tried.
Chapel said: Please, please make them stop.
Spock said: I haven't the power. I'm deeply sorry. We've failed you.
Chapel said: For so long I've wanted to be close to you. Now all I want to crawl away and die.
Finally they are forced to kiss.;
Dioniyde said: Careful, Mister Spock. Too much love is dangerous.
Eraclitus said: Remember, Cupid's arrow kills Vulcans. (general laughter)
Uhura said: (in Kirk's arms) I'm so frightened, Captain. I'm so very frightened.
Kirk said: That's the way they want you to feel. It makes them think that they're alive.
Uhura said: I know it, but I wish I could stop trembling.
Kirk said: Try not to think of them. Try.
Uhura said: I'm thinking. I'm thinking of all the times on the Enterprise when I was scared to death and I would see you so busy at your commands. And I would hear your voice from all the parts of the ship and my fears would fade. And now they are making me tremble. But I'm not afraid. I am not afraid.
As the camera closes in, Uhura's head is turned to obscure our view - and the lips don't quite touch.
Philana said: Parmen, let's get on with it.
Parmen said: You are so impatient, my wife. Observe the doctor and learn. He's quite content to wait for the piece de resistance.
A table with a whip and other weapons slides across. Kirk and Spock approach it. Kirk takes the whip, Spock the red-hot poker. Just as they get to the women, Kirk turns.
Kirk said: You're half dead, all of you! You've been dead for centuries. We may disappear tomorrow, but at least we're living now, and you can't stand that, can you? You're half crazy because there's nothing inside. Nothing. And you have to torture us to convince yourselves you're superior.
Kirk cracks the whip in front of Uhura's face. Alexander creeps away.;
Mccoy said: Stop it, Parmen! Stop it! I'll do whatever you want me to do. I'll stay and serve you, but stop it!
Philana said: Parmen.
Alexander is frozen in the act of trying to stab Parmen.
Parmen said: Alexander again. He likes to play with knives. Very well, we shall indulge him.
Alexander struggles not to stab himself, when suddenly he is released.
Parmen said: Who did that?
Kirk said: (throwing down the whip.) I did.
Eraclitus said: Impossible!
Spock said: Quite possible and logical.
Spock throws away the poker.
Dioniyde said: What is this?
Philana said: What's going on?
Kirk said: Platonians, listen to me. The next one of you that tries any trick will get hurt. Not only do we have your psychokinetic abilities, but at twice your power level.
Parmen said: Not twice mine!
Parmen controls Alexander and sends him to attack Kirk, but Kirk sends him back. To and fro he turns until finally the dagger is inches from Parmen's body.
Parmen said: Captain, no! Captain! I beg of you, I'll do anything you say. I do not wish to die. Captain, do you hear me?
Alexander said: Don't stop me. Let me finish him off.
Kirk said: Do you want to be like him?
Alexander puts down the knife by his own choice. Parmen is dragged out of his seat.
Alexander said: Parmen, listen to me. I could have had your power, but I didn't want it. I could have had your place right now, but the sight of you and your Academicians sickens me. Despite your brains, you're the most contemptible things that ever lived in this universe.
Parmen said: Captain, you knew that I intended to destroy both you and the Enterprise, yet you spared me.
Kirk said: To us, killing is murder, even for revenge. But there will be other starships.
Parmen said: There's no need for concern. They'll be safe. Of late, I have begun to think that we've become bizarre and unproductive. We are existing merely to nourish our own power. It's time for some fresh air. We shall welcome your interstellar visits.
Kirk said: I don't believe you.
Spock said: That would be highly uncharacteristic. We must expect, Parmen, that the moment we leave here, your fear would be gone and you would again be as sadistic and as arrogant as your twenty five hundred years have made you.
Kirk said: Just remember, we can recreate that power in a matter of hours, so don't try anything.
Parmen said: Understood, Captain. And you're right, none of us can be trusted. Uncontrolled, power will turn even saints into savages, and we can all be counted upon to live down to our lowest impulses.
Kirk said: You're very good at making speeches, Parmen. Just make sure that this one sinks in. Now move aside. Alexander. Kirk to Enterprise. Mister Scott, prepare to beam us up. I have a little surprise for you. I'm bringing a visitor aboard.