The Empath
Stardate: 5121.5
Original Airdate: 6 Dec, 1968
Captain's log, stardate 5121.5, orbiting the second planet in the Minarian star system. This star has long given evidence of entering a nova phase, and six months ago, a research station was established to make close-up studies of the star as its end approaches. Minara is now entering a critical period, and the Enterprise has been ordered to evacuate the station before the planet becomes uninhabitable. Yet our attempts to contact the station's personnel have been, so far, unsuccessful.
Scene: Research station.
Spock said: Dust. Apparently these instruments have not been recently used.
Kirk said: Record tape. Maybe it'll tell us something about the personnel that lived here.
Scott said: Enterprise to Captain Kirk. Come in, please.
Kirk said: Kirk here. What is it, Enterprise?
Scott said: Scott here, sir.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Our instruments have picked up a gigantic solar flare
Scene: Research station.
Scott said: With very high levels of cosmic rays accompanying it.
Kirk said: How bad?
Scott said: An enormous one.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Our sensors indicate the cosmic ray concentration measures three point five one on the Ritter scale. That'll play the very devil with the crew, as well as the ship.
Scene: Research station.
Spock said: At that rate, it will take exactly seventy four point one solar hours for the storm to pass.
Kirk said: Get that ship out of here. Stay at minimum distance for absolute safety.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Aye, aye, sir. We'll beam you up in
Kirk said: Negative. We're staying here. The atmosphere will protect us.
Scene: Research station.
Kirk said: Get that ship out of here, Mister Scott.
Scott said: Very well, sir. Scott out.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, what about that tape?
Spock said: Remember, Captain, what we see on this tape happened approximately three months ago.
Linke said: I don't think I can stand another week in this godforsaken place.
Ozaba said: In his hand are the deep places of the earth. Psalm ninety five, verse four. Looks like he was listening.
A piercing noise makes them cover their ears, then Ozaba vanishes.
Linke said: Who's out there?
He vanishes too.
Mccoy said: What happened to them?
The same noise comes again.
Kirk said: Where's does that sound coming from? Spock, can you pinpoint it?
Spock said: Negative, Captain. It doesn't register.
Spock disappears, then McCoy.
Kirk said: Bones! Spock!
He tries to leave, but falls back into the floor. Then he vanishes too leaving just a body print in the dust.
Scene: Huge room.
The three awaken lying on the floor of a big, bare room. Blue floor, red walls.
Kirk said: Spock. Bones. Where are we?
Spock said: Exactly one two one point three two metres beneath the planet surface, Captain.
Kirk said: How did we get here?
Spock said: Residual energy readings indicate we were beamed here by a matter-energy scrambler, similar to our own transporter mechanism.
Mccoy said: That's a nasty cut, Jim. Does it hurt?
Kirk said: No.
Spock said: Captain, picking up a life-form reading bearing four two mark seven.
Kirk said: One of the missing scientists?
Spock said: Negative. Although humanoid, it is definitely not Homo Sapiens.
Kirk said: Identification?
Spock said: Impossible. I can make no exact identification other than it being humanoid.
Kirk said: Let's find out. Phasers on stun.
They start walking.
Spock said: Approaching the life-form, Captain.
Kirk said: What is it?
Spock said: Still undistinguishable.
A light reveals a young woman lying on what might be a bed, which is itself on a stepped platform. McCoy moves towards her.
Kirk said: Be careful.
Mccoy said: She seems harmless enough.
Spock said: The sand-bats of Manark Four appear to be inanimate rock crystals, Doctor, until they attack.
She wakes, using big gestures, and mimes her fear of Kirk's phaser.
Kirk said: We're not going to hurt you. Is this your home? Do you live here? What about it, Spock? Analysis.
Spock said: From what we know of the specific gravity and other environmental factors of this planet, a life-form such as hers could not evolve here.
They put their phasers away.
Kirk said: Are you responsible for bringing us here? Don't be afraid. Bones, what's wrong with her?
Mccoy said: She's a mute, Jim. No vocal cords, not even vestigals. And I don't think it's a pathological condition.
Kirk said: Explain.
Mccoy said: She appears to be perfectly healthy. As for the other, her lack of vocal cords could be physiologically normal for her species, whatever that is.
Kirk said: A race of mutes, like the civilisation on Gamma Vertis Four.
Mccoy said: That's my observation, for whatever it's worth.
Kirk said: Without speech, how's she going to be able to understand us? Unless she's a telepath.
Spock said: An unlikely possibility, Captain, since over ninety eight percent of the known telepathic species send thoughts as well as receive them. She's made no attempt to contact our minds.
Mccoy said: We can't keep referring to her as she, as if she weren't here.
Kirk said: Do you have any ideas?
Mccoy said: Well, I don't know about you, but I'm going to call her Gem.
Spock said: Gem, Doctor?
Mccoy said: Well, that's better than 'Hey, you.'
Kirk said: I want to know why we're here. I want to know what's going on. And she knows.
Two big-headed aliens in silver robes appear. First cousins to the Talos people, by the looks of them.
Kirk said: I'm Captain
Thann said: We are aware of your identity, Captain.
Kirk said: Who are you? Why did you bring us here?
Lal said: We are Vians. Do not interfere.
Kirk said: What do you intend to do with us?
Thann said: Delay us no longer.
Kirk said: We come (moves forward and gets pushed back by a weapon) Since you already know who we are, you must also know that we come in peace. Our prime directive specifically prohibits us from any interference.)
The Vians fire their weapons several times, and the landing party is caught in some sort of enery field. The Vians go to Gem
Kirk said: I can't seem to stand up.
Mccoy said: Don't fight the force field. There's something about it that upsets the body metabolism.
Lal said: Not quite, Doctor. The field draws its energy from your bodies. The more you resist, the stronger the force field becomes. Sufficient.
The Vians vanish, then the forcefield.
Kirk said: Mister Spock there must be an exit other than the one we just saw.
Spock said: Correct, Captain.
Spock goes off, scanning with his tricorder.
Mccoy said: Do you feel all right, Jim?
Kirk said: Don't worry about me. They may have hurt her.
Kirk takes her hands, she takes a deep breath and turns away.
Kirk said: Did they hurt you?
Then Gem turns back and touches the cut on Kirk's head. It disappears from him and appears on her forehead instead, then vanishes.
Kirk said: The pain is gone. She touched my head, and the pain is gone.
Mccoy said: The wound is completely healed. It fits, Jim. She must be an empath. Her nervous system is so sensitive, highly responsive that she can actually feel our emotional and physical reactions. They become part of her.
Spock returns.
Kirk said: Thank you.
Spock said: Captain, in that direction, my tricorder is now picking up a substantial collection of objects.
Kirk said: Details.
Spock said: Electronically sophisticated devices. I fail to understand why my tricorder previously gave no indication of them being out there.
Kirk said: Well they're there now. Let's go check them out. (to Gem) Staying here alone could be dangerous. Come with us.
The group comes to a collection of computer-like items, girder structures holding up nothing, glass tubes. Herein called 'the laboratory'
Spock said: Fascinating.
Mccoy said: Look at this stuff.
Kirk said: Bones Spock, come here.
He has found the scientists, preserved in perspex tubes, in the same positions that they vanished from the research lab.
Mccoy said: Jim, Spock.
There are three empty tubes, with the away teams names on them..
Lal said: We are on schedule. Some further simple tests are necessary.
Mccoy said: We've seen the results of some of your tests.
Kirk said: I found our missing men. Dead. Another one of your experiments?
Lal said: You're wrong. Their own imperfections killed them. They were not fit subjects. Come. Time is short.
Kirk said: Yes. Your time is running out. This sun is about to nova. When it does, it'll destroy you, this planet, and this insane torture chamber.
Spock neck-pinches the alien.
Kirk said: Let's get out of here.
Spock said: Readings indicate the passage to the surface lies in this direction.
As they head off, Lal wakes up and watches them go. He is joined by the other alien.
Scene: Planet surface.
A strong wind is blowing as they emerge from a cave.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise. Kirk to Enterprise, come in. Out of range. Readings, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Research station six kilometres in that direction, Captain.
Kirk said: Let's get there as fast as we can. If the Enterprise has a search party, it'll be there.
The group run on. Gem isn't very good at running, and McCoy falls over a stone once.
Kirk said: Spock! Much further?
Spock said: Just ahead.
Mccoy said: Hey, Jim, look. Scotty and a search party.
Kirk said: Scotty!
Mccoy said: Scotty!
Kirk said: Stay there! Come on!
Mccoy said: We're coming!
When Gem stumbles again, Kirk sees the aliens watching their progress. He sends her on ahead of him.
Kirk said: Keep going.
Lal said: Their will to survive is great.
Thann said: They love life greatly to struggle so.
Lal said: The prime ingredient.
Scene: Outside Research station.
Scott and the rescue team vanish.
Mccoy said: Where'd they go?
Spock said: I believe they were never actually present, Doctor. It was a mirage.
Gem gestures to them to go back with her.
Mccoy said: Where's Kirk?
Scene: Planet surface.
They find Kirk on the ground.
Mccoy said: Jim.
Kirk said: What are you doing here? Where's Scotty?
Spock said: Captain, it was a mirage.
Thann said: Captain Kirk! We have decided that one specimen will be sufficient. You will come with us.
Kirk said: What about the others?
Lal said: We've no interest in them. They may go.
Kirk said: Very well.
Mccoy said: You can't go back there. You'll end up like the other two.
Spock said: Captain, I request permission to be allowed
Kirk said: Denied.
Mccoy said: But, Captain
Kirk said: You have your orders.
McCoy, Spock and Gem vanish.
Kirk said: What happened to my men?
Lal said: They are safe.
Kirk said: One specimen, you said. One specimen! What happened to my men?
Thann said: Indeed, the prime ingredient.
Kirk said: Where are they? Tell me! You said you'd let them go!
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Mister Sulu, will you give us an estimate of how much longer we'll have until those solar flares will subside?
Sulu said: Aye, sir. Readings now indicate two point seven two one on the Ritter scale. At the present rate of decrease, we'll have to wait at least seventeen hours more before we can even attempt to enter orbit.
Scott said: Aye. Well, as long as we're stuck out here, we might as well relax until the storm passes.
Sulu said: The storm's already lasted four hours longer than we've anticipated. Do you suppose our landing party could be in any danger?
Scott said: That's not likely. The planet's atmosphere will give them ample protection. And if I know Captain Kirk, he'll be more worried about us than we are about him.
Scene: Laboratory.
Kirk is currently stripped and dangling from a couple of chains, crucifixion-style. He is suffering, and Gem is watching.
Kirk said: What is it you want to know?
Lal said: We seek no information as you mean. Your civilisation is yet too immature to have knowledge valuable to us.
Kirk said: You don't need any knowledge from us, yet you're willing to kill for it. Is that what happened to Linke and Ozaba?
Thann said: We did not kill them. Their own fears killed them.
Kirk said: Well, what did you expect from them? And what do you want from me?
Lal said: We've already observed the intensity of your passions and gauged your capacity to love others. Now we want you to reveal to us your courage and strength of will.
Kirk said: Why? What is it you hope to prove? If my death is to have any meaning, at least tell me what I'm dying for.
Thann said: If you live, you will have your answer.
Scene: Bed area.
Mccoy said: Come on, Spock, the passageway was there before. It's got to be there.
Spock said: Doctor, I'm unable to lock in on the previous readings. I can find no exit out of here.
A flash, Gem and a clothed but unconscious Kirk appear, along with the forcefield to restrain McCoy and Spock.
Mccoy said: Captain! (Kirk wakes) Jim, what is it? What have they done to you?
Gem starts to try to heal Kirk, but recoils at the pain.
Mccoy said: Help him. Don't be afraid to help him.
She does, taking the pain from his shoulders and the wounds from his wrists. Gem collapses. The forcefield is gone.
Mccoy said: Jim. You lie still. I'll check her out right away.
Kirk said: Will she live?
Mccoy said: She seems fine now.
Kirk said: Can you explain what happened?
Mccoy said: Complete empathy. She must be a totally functional empath. Her nervous system actually connected to yours to counteract the worst of your symptoms and with her strength, she virtually sustained your body's physiological reactions.
Kirk said: She weakened. I could feel it. Is her life in danger?
Mccoy said: It's impossible to say yet, but supplying your body with life support did drain her.
Spock said: Her withdrawal seemed to suggest the fear of death, Doctor. Only your urging her on caused her to continue.
Mccoy said: That's true. Fear would naturally be her first reaction. Perhaps she doesn't know our captain well enough yet to offer up her life for him.
Kirk said: Could the strain really have killed her?
Mccoy said: Oh yes. However, I'd assume that her instinct for self-preservation would take over to prevent it. How do you feel?
Kirk said: I'm tired.
Spock said: Can you recall what happened, Captain?
Kirk said: I remember the laboratory, and they wanted to know something. But I, I can't remember.
Mccoy said: Take it easy.
Kirk said: What's the matter with me?
Mccoy said: You have all the symptoms of the bends. Nitrogen bubbles in your blood caused the pain. Now how would one get the bends down here?
Kirk said: You'll have to ask the Vians. Will I live?
Mccoy said: Well, you could use some time in a decompression chamber. But otherwise, I'd say your recovery is about miraculous. I wish I could take the credit for it, but she did the work.
Spock said: Captain, I noted that a light preceded you at the moment you were returned here from the Vian's laboratory.
Mccoy said: Spock, why do you have to get so analytical at a time like
Kirk said: No, he's right. Continue.
Spock said: I conclude such a light is an energy transfer point linking this device to the power source.
Spock refers to the hand device they took off Lal.
Kirk said: Can you tap into it?
Spock said: If I can determine the frequency at which this device operates, I might be able to cause it to function for us.
Kirk said: And get us out of here the same way we were brought in.
Spock said: I would say so.
Kirk said: Then I would say proceed.
Lal said: You are called Captain. You are responsible for the lives of your crew. Is this correct?
Kirk said: It is.
Thann said: We find it necessary to have the co-operation of one of your men in our efforts.
Kirk said: We will not co-operate.
Lal said: When we resume our interrogations, you will decide which of your men we shall use. It is essential. There is an eighty seven percent chance that the doctor will die. And while Commander Spock's life is not in danger, the possibility is ninety three percent that he will suffer brain damage, resulting in permanent insanity.
Later
Kirk said: How's it coming, Spock?
Spock said: I do not know, Captain. I'm beginning to understand its operating principles, but that is all.
Mccoy said: Spock, It won't be long before the Vians come back. You better find out how that thing works and soon.
Kirk said: Take it easy, Bones.
Mccoy said: Men weren't intended to live this far underground. It's just not natural.
Kirk said: And space travel is?
Spock said: Some men spend the majority of their lives in mines beneath the surface.
Mccoy said: I'm a doctor, not a coal miner.
Spock said: I've recorded my principles and theories on the tricorder, Doctor. Should the Vians return, there is sufficient data for you and the captain to complete the adjustments.
Mccoy said: I'm not a mechanic. I couldn't get that thing to work no matter how many notes you left.
Spock said: Possibly not, but you and the captain together will be able to do so.
Mccoy said: In any case, Spock, you're the logical one to leave with the captain.
Kirk said: The decision's mine. If there are any decisions to be made, I'll make them. If and when it becomes necessary.
Kirk appears to be in discomfort. McCoy prepares a hypo, and injects him.
Kirk said: I don't need any
Mccoy said: I'm still Chief Medical Officer of the Enterprise. I'll tell you what you need and when you need it. Would you rather have the bends? That's it. Just lie down and relax.
Spock said: How long will he be asleep, Doctor?
Mccoy said: Between the emotional strain and that attack of bends, he's in pretty bad shape.
Spock said: I'm not criticizing your action, Doctor. On the contrary, I'm quite grateful for it. The captain will be spared the strain of making so difficult a decision. You have simplified the situation considerably.
Mccoy said: How?
Spock said: While the captain is asleep, I am in command. When the Vians return, I shall go with them.
Mccoy said: You mean, if I hadn't given him that shot
Spock said: Precisely. The choice would have been the captain's. Now it is mine.
McCoy turns away. Spock sits to carry on working. Gem puts her hand on Spock's shoulder, and smiles. McCoy comes up behind him and gives him an injection.
Spock said: Your action is highly unethical. My decision stands.
Spock falls asleep next to Kirk.
Mccoy said: Not this time, Spock.
The Vians return.
Mccoy said: The choice has been made. (to Gem) You stay here with my friends. They'll take care of you. Do you understand?
Thann said: Come, then.
McCoy puts down his bag and tricorder, then the three vanish.
Scene: Laboratory.
Now it is McCoy who is being crucified from the chains.
Lal said: Doctor, please understand that if there was any other way to accomplish our purpose
Mccoy said: Get on with it.
So they do.
Scene: Bed area.
Kirk said: Why did you let him do it?
Spock said: I was convinced in the same way you were, Captain. By the good doctor's hypo.
Kirk said: Anything?
Spock said: Hmm. A most unusual device. It is a control unit, but not a control mechanism. In fact, it is not a mechanical device.
Kirk said: What exactly is it?
Spock said: This control is attuned to one electrical pattern of energy, the pattern produced by the mental impulses of the person who possesses it. It is activated solely by mental commands.
Kirk said: Can you adapt it, re-attune it to fit our brain pattern?
Spock said: I shall attempt to do so. However, it is not possible to adjust the control to fit more than one pattern at a time. I am, of course, most familiar with my own pattern. Therefore, with your permission, I
Kirk said: Do whatever you have to to make it work, Spock. What disturbs me is why the Vians let us keep it.
Spock said: Fascinating. They must have known we were capable of comprehending this control and making use of it.
Kirk said: And that we would use it to escape.
Spock said: The only logical assumption is that they wish to let us go.
Kirk said: And they keep McCoy.
Spock said: That is evidently their intention, Captain.
Kirk said: (to Gem) Somehow, you're the crux, the focal point of all this. Even before we got here, she was a prisoner. They didn't hurt her, they didn't even threaten her.
Spock said: Indeed, the facts would indicate that she's essential to their purpose.
Kirk said: Yes, there is a purpose, but what is it? Has all the pain and terror happened, or been made to happen for you?
Spock said: Completed, Captain. The adjustments are delicate. They may not survive more than even one use. However, there should be sufficient energy to transfer us to the Enterprise.
Kirk said: Will it take us to McCoy?
Spock said: If you so desire.
Kirk said: The best defence is a strong offense, and I intend to start offending right now. Aim for the lab.
Scene: Laboratory.
Spock, Kirk and Gem arrive at to find McCoy alone, still suspended from the chains. Gem is horrified.
Kirk said: Bones. Spock. Get him down. His wrists. (they lie him on a couch) His pulse is almost gone. How is he?
Spock said: Severe heart damage. Signs of congestion in both lungs. Evidence of massive circulatory collapse.
Mccoy said: I
Kirk said: Don't talk. Don't speak. Take it easy until we get you back to the ship. What is it? What's the matter?
Spock said: He's dying, Jim. We can make him comfortable, but that is all.
Kirk said: You don't know. You're not a doctor.
Spock said: Internal injuries. Bleeding in the chest and abdomen. Haemorrhage of the spleen and liver. Seventy percent kidney failure.
Mccoy said: He's right, Jim. Being a doctor has its drawbacks. I always wondered why I (coughs, so they turn him on his side) Thanks.
Kirk said: How long?
Spock said: It could happen anytime.
Mccoy said: The correct medical phrase, ay, Spock? You've got a a good bedside manner, Spock.
Kirk said: Can't we do something?
Spock said: I'm afraid not.
Kirk said: Gem might be able to help him, the way she helped me, but could his nearness to death also kill her?
Spock said: Uncertain, Captain. Dr. McCoy's analysis of her reaction assumes that her instinct for self-preservation would prevent it. However, we cannot be positive.
Kirk said: If she could just strengthen him and keep him from sinking further into death, we might be able to save him.
A forcefield stops them from getting to where Gem is crouching in fear
Lal said: No interference will be permitted.
Kirk said: She can save his life. Let us help her to go to him.
Lal said: She must not be urged or forced to take action.
Thann said: All must proceed without interference.
Lal said: The purpose that brought us together
Kirk said: What purpose can all this serve, except the fulfilment of some need of yours?
Lal said: We have but one need left in life, and that is to see the completion of the final moment of our test.
Thann said: Be patient.
Kirk said: Patient? Our friend is dying.
Thann said: Perhaps.
Spock said: What purpose can be served by the death of our friend, except to bring you pleasure? Surely beings as advanced as yourselves know that your star system will soon be extinct. Your sun will nova.
Thann said: We know.
Spock said: Then you also know that the millions of inhabitants on its planets are doomed.
Lal said: That is why we are here.
Kirk said: This arena of death that you have devised for your pleasure. Will it prevent this catastrophe?
Lal said: No, it will not, but it may save Gem's planet. Of all the planets of Minara, we have the power to transport the inhabitants of only one to safety.
Thann said: If Gem's planet is the one that will be saved, we must make certain beyond any doubt whatsoever they are worthy of survival.
Kirk said: How will the death of our friend serve this purpose?
Lal said: His death will not serve it, but her willingness to give her life for him will. You were her teachers.
Kirk said: We were? What could she learn from us?
Lal said: Your will to survive. Your love of life. Your passion to know. They are recorded in her being.
Thann said: Her planet will be fortunate.
Lal said: Each of you is willing to give his life for the others. We must now find out whether that instinct has been transmitted to Gem.
A small earthquake shakes the room.
Thann said: Time grows short.
Spock said: You were correct, Captain. Everything that has occurred here has been caused to happen by them. This has all been a great laboratory, and we have been the subjects of the test.
Thann said: No. We only created the circumstances. That was necessary.
Lal said: Your actions were spontaneous. Everything that is truest and best in all species of beings has been revealed by you. Those are the qualities that make a civilisation worthy to survive.
Gem goes and sits by McCoy.
Thann said: Behold. That is most significant. An instinct new to the essence of her being is generating.
Lal said: Compassion for another is becoming part of her functioning life system.
Gem moves her hands over McCoy, not quite touching him. His bruises and cuts heal, transferring to her before disappearing. She slumps, crying silently. Then she tries for the internal injuries, but falls away in agony.
Thann said: She is afraid.
Lal said: She's saving herself. She does not yet have the instinct to save her people.
Thann said: We have failed?
Lal said: No. No, not yet.
Spock said: Captain, Dr. McCoy's life is not solely dependent on Gem. The Vians too must be capable of saving his life.
Thann said: True.
Kirk said: Then you cannot let him die.
Lal said: His death is not important. We must wait to see whether her instinct for self-sacrifice has become stronger than her instinct for self-preservation.
McCoy starts to wake. Gem returns to him.
Mccoy said: Don't touch me. Stay away. Jim. Spock. Are you here?
Kirk said: Yes, Bones.
Mccoy said: Don't let her touch me. She'll die. Jim, I can't destroy life, even if it's to save my own. I can't. You know that. I can't let you do it.
McCoy pushes Gem away.
Spock said: Captain?
Kirk said: What is it?
Spock said: The intensity of emotion is draining us and building up the force field.
Kirk said: Yes, I know.
Spock said: It draws its energy from us, Captain. In spite of what we see, all emotion must be suppressed. That might weaken the field.
Kirk said: I'll try.
Spock leaves the forcefield, but Kirk remains trapped.
Kirk said: Yes.
Spock takes the device from Thann, and Kirk is free too. KIRK: Spock.
Lal said: You cannot use our powers to change what is happening.
Kirk said: You must save the life of our friend.
Lal said: No. We will not. Her instinct must be developed to the fullest. The test must be complete.
Spock said: It is complete. Gem has earned the right of survival for her planet. She offered her life.
Lal said: To offer is not proof enough.
Kirk said: If death is all you understand, here are four lives for you.
Kirk returns the two devices.
Kirk said: We will not leave our friend. You've lost the capacity to feel the emotions you brought Gem here to experience. You don't understand what it is to live. Love and compassion are dead in you. You're nothing but intellect.
Lal goes over to McCoy and heals him, then picks up the unconscious Gem.
Lal said: Farewell.
They recede into the darkness.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Strange.
Spock said: What is puzzling you, Captain?
Kirk said: I'm not puzzled, Mister Spock. I am awed.
Mccoy said: I'm with you, Captain. She awed me.
Kirk said: No, no. I wasn't thinking of Gem. I was thinking of that fantastic element of chance that out in limitless space we should come together with Gem.
Spock said: Captain, the element of chance can virtually be eliminated by a civilisation as advanced as the Vians.
Scott said: Not to dispute your computer, Mister Spock, but from little what you've told me, I would say she was a pearl of great price.
Kirk said: What, Scott?
Scott said: Do you not know the story of the merchant? The merchant, who when he found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had and bought it.
Kirk said: Yes, she was all that. And whether the Vians bought her or found her makes little difference. She was of great value.
Mccoy said: Well, personally, I find it fascinating that with all their scientific knowledge and advances, that it was good old-fashioned human emotion that they valued the most.
Scott said: Perhaps the Vulcans should hear about this.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, can you be prevailed upon to bring them the news?
Spock said: Possibly, Captain. I shall certainly give the thought all the consideration it is due.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu, ahead warp factor two.
Sulu said: Aye, aye, sir. Warp factor two.