The Tholian Web
Stardate: 5693.2
Original Airdate: 15 Nov, 1968
Captain's log, stardate 5693.2. The Enterprise is approaching the last reported position of the star ship Defiant, which vanished without trace three weeks ago. We are in unsurveyed territory.
Scene: Bridge.
You could cut the tense atmosphere with a knife.
Spock said: Captain, we are registering very curious readings from all sensors.
Kirk said: Specify.
Spock said: I cannot. According to our instruments, space itself is literally breaking up. There is no known phenomenon which would account for these readings.
Kirk said: What about sensor failure?
Spock said: Negative. I have run a complete check on all systems.
Scott said: Captain. We're losing power in the warp engines.
Kirk said: How bad is it?
Scott said: We can barely read it, but I don't like the looks of it. And I cannot find out the cause.
Chekov said: Captain. Visual detection of an object dead ahead.
Kirk said: How about it, Spock?
Spock said: Fascinating.
Kirk said: Explain.
Spock said: There is virtually no sensor contact. No mass analysis. No trace of radiation. We see it, but our sensors indicate it is not there.
As they close in, the bright fuzzy thing on the screen becomes recognizable.
Kirk said: The Defiant! Mister Sulu, impulse engines only. Close to transporter range.
Sulu said: Aye, aye, sir.
Kirk said: Lieutenant, open up a hailing frequency.
Uhura said: I've been trying to raise them, sir. There is no response.
Sulu said: Just within transporter range, sir.
Kirk said: Good. Maintain position. Mister Spock, Mister Chekov, come with me. Doctor McCoy, report to the transporter room immediately. Scotty, you have the conn.
Scott said: Aye, sir.
Scene: Transporter room.
The landing party are wearing silvery space suits.
O'Neil said: Locked in on the Defiant Bridge, sir.
Kirk said: Energise.
Scene: Defiant Bridge.
The crew are dead. One man is in the act of strangling another.
Chekov said: Has there ever been a mutiny on a starship before?
Spock said: Absolutely no record of such an occurrence, Ensign.
Mccoy said: Jim. The Captain's neck is broken.
Spock said: The ship is still functioning, Captain. It is logical to assume the mutineers are somewhere aboard.
Kirk said: Use the ship's sensors to locate them. Kirk to Enterprise.
Scott said: Scott here, sir.
Kirk said: Prepare to beam over a full security squad on my orders.
Scott said: Aye, aye, Captain.
Spock said: Captain, there is no sign of life aboard this vessel.
Kirk said: Odd, Mister Spock. Very odd. Spock, you stay here with me. Chekov, get down to Engineering and life support systems. Doctor McCoy, check out the Sickbay. Kirk to Enterprise. Cancel the security squad and stand by for further instructions.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Aye, aye, Captain. Standing by.
Sulu said: I can't get an accurate fix on the Defiant, Mister Scott, but I know it's drifting away from us. Shall I correct for range, sir?
Scott said: Aye, I think you're right. Keep us within beaming range, but not too close.
Scene: Defiant Engineering.
The crew in Engineering are dead, so is everyone in Sickbay. The patients were strapped down onto the beds.
Chekov said: Captain.
Kirk said: Report, Mister Chekov.
Chekov said: Just like what I found in life support. All dead.
Scene: Defiant Bridge.
Kirk said: Get back up here.
Chekov has a dizzy spell, and totters out of Engineering.
Kirk said: Kirk to McCoy.
Scene: Defiant Sickbay.
Mccoy said: McCoy here.
Scene: Defiant Bridge.
Kirk said: Bones, can you tell me what they all died of?
Mccoy said: I'd say these people killed each other.
Kirk said: They what?
Scene: Defiant Sickbay.
Mccoy said: You heard correctly, Jim. These people killed each other.
Scene: Defiant Bridge.
Kirk said: Could mental disease have infected all of the crew?
Mccoy said: According to the ship's log, the medical surgeon down here didn't even know what was going on.
Scene: Defiant Sickbay.
Mccoy said: The best I can do is get all the readings I can get and analyse them later.
Scene: Defiant Corridor.
McCoy kneels beside a slightly fuzzy crewman lying on the floor, and reaches out to touch him. His hand passes through the body.
Mccoy said: What the devil?
Kirk said: Bones, what is it?
Scene: Defiant Doctor's office.
Kirk said: Bones, what is it? Answer me!
McCoy's hand passes through a PADD and a desk.
Scene: Defiant Bridge.
Kirk said: Answer me!
Scene: Defiant Doctor's office.
Mccoy said: Jim, this ship is dissolving. My hand just passed through a man
Scene: Defiant Bridge.
Mccoy said: And a table.
Kirk said: Get up here on the double.
Scene: Bridge.
On the viewscreen, the fuzzy Defiant disappears and reappears several times.
Sulu said: Mister Scott, the Defiant. It's starting to disappear.
Scene: Transporter room.
Scott said: Bridge to transporter room.
O'Neil said: Transporter room, O'Neil here.
Scott said: You got that transporter working yet, Mister?
O'Neil said: No, sir. Not yet.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Take over, Mister Sulu. I'll be in the transporter room.
Sulu said: Aye, aye, sir.
Scene: Defiant Bridge.
Spock said: Captain, the Defiant's sensors correspond with an extremely high degree of correlation to those of the Enterprise.
Kirk said: You mean what happened to the Defiant might be happening to the Enterprise?
Spock said: Affirmative.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise. Mister Scott.
Scott said: Scott here.
Kirk said: Mister Scott, stand by to beam us back.
Scene: Transporter room.
Scott said: I can't, sir. At least, not all at once.
Scene: Defiant Bridge.
Kirk said: Why not? What's happened?
Scene: Transporter room.
Scott said: Everything. That ship you're in is fading out, and it's ripping the innards out of this one.
Scene: Defiant Bridge.
Scott said: It's jamming our transporter frequencies. I've only got three of them working, and I'm not sure of those. One of you has got to wait.
Kirk said: Chekov, McCoy, prepare for transportation. You, too, Spock.
Spock said: Request permission to remain, Captain. I could be completing the data.
Kirk said: Request denied.
Spock said: Captain, there is a chance
Kirk said: I know what the chances are. Mister Spock, don't argue. Get back with the information. I'll be right there. Scotty, energise transporter.
Scene: Transporter room.
Scott said: Aye.
It takes two goes and a lot of switch flicking to beam the three onto the Enterprise.
Spock said: Energise.
Nothing happens. Chekov switches on the wall monitor.
Chekov said: It's gone. The Defiant just vanished.
Scott and O'Neil start fiddling with the innards of the transporter console.
Scott said: Anything?
Spock said: Negative.
Scott said: That's it. I've done all I can. There's nothing out there to grab a hold of and bring in. When that ship went, it must have taken the Captain with it.
Scene: Bridge.
Computer said: Computer working.
Spock said: Compute the next period of spatial interphase.
Computer said: Next interphase two hours twelve minutes.
Scott said: Two hours and twelve minutes? That power leak has unbalanced the ship and she's starting to drift. I can't hold her in place that long.
Spock said: We must try, Mister Scott. The fabric of space is very weak here. If we disturb it, there will be no chance of retrieving the Captain alive.
Chekov said: I don't understand what's so special about this region of space.
Spock said: Well, picture it this way, Mister Chekov. We exist in a universe which co-exists with a multitude of others in the same physical space. At certain brief periods of time, an area of their space overlaps an area of ours. That is a time of interphase, during which we can connect with the Defiant's universe.
Uhura said: Mister Spock? We will be able to retrieve the Captain at that time, won't we?
Spock said: Yes. However, the dimensional structure of each universe is totally dissimilar. Any use of power disturbs it. If we are not extremely careful, we shall lose the Captain and become trapped ourselves.
Uhura said: I see.
Chekov said: And die like him?
Chekov leaps up, pushes Spock away and, screaming, attacks Sulu. Scott grabs him and McCoy arrives to help. Spock grabs his face.
Spock said: Chekov! Chekov!
Spock neck-pinches him into silence.
Spock said: Security guards to the Bridge.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Mccoy said: What happened, Mister Spock?
Spock said: I was attempting to explain to Mister Chekov the nature of our problems in this situation when he attacked.
Mccoy said: Did anyone notice anything peculiar in his behaviour before this?
Sulu said: I think he had several spasms of pain.
Mccoy said: Did he seem to be getting hysterical?
Uhura said: Doctor, he seemed more angry than frightened.
Scott said: He had no cause to be angry.
Security arrive.
Mccoy said: Take Mister Chekov to Sickbay. Put him under restraint.
Scott and the security guards leave with Chekov.
Spock said: Lieutenant Uhura is correct. There was murderous fury in Chekov. The same fury which was evident in the Defiant.
Mccoy said: That's what I was afraid of. Whatever it was that drove the crew of the Defiant to murder each other could be communicable.
Spock said: Is there anything you need to isolate the cause?
Mccoy said: Time. By the way, Mister Spock, I think it might be a wise precaution to put some distance between us and the Defiant.
Spock said: If we are to recover the Captain, we must not move.
Mccoy said: How long will that take?
Spock said: Approximately two hours before the attempt can be made.
Mccoy said: Spock, are you sure that Jim is still alive?
Spock said: The Captain was caught in our transporter beam when the Defiant phased out. It is possible he was spared the shock of transition and survived. However, if we are to recover him, we must catch him at the precise moment during the next interphase, or he will die. And there can be no margin for error. His environmental unit can provide breathable air for no more than three point six two hours.
Sulu said: Mister Spock. A vessel approaching on an intercept vector.
Spock said: Status, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Range two hundred thousand kilometres. Velocity zero point five one C.
An arrow-head shaped ship has arrived.
Spock said: Lieutenant Uhura, signal Red Alert.
Uhura said: Aye, sir. Red Alert. All decks, go to Red Alert.
Sulu said: They've stopped dead, sir. Range ninety thousand kilometres and holding.
Uhura said: Mister Spock? I'm receiving a visual signal.
Spock said: Transfer to main viewer.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
A strange, garish orange figure with triangular eyes (possibly appears against a blue and pink tie-die background.)
Loskene said: I am Commander Loskene. You are trespassing in a territorial annex of the Tholian Assembly. You must leave this area immediately.
Spock said: Spock, in command of the Federation star ship Enterprise. Commander, according to the Federation, this area is free space.
Loskene said: We claim this territory and are prepared to use force, if necessary, to protect our property.
Spock said: We are not interested in your display of force. The Enterprise is responding to a distress signal from one of our ships and is currently engaged in rescue operations. Do you wish to assist us?
Loskene said: I find no evidence of a disabled ship. My instruments indicate ours are the only two vessels in this area.
Spock said: The other ship is interspatially trapped. It should reappear in one hour and fifty three minutes. We request you stand by until then.
Loskene said: Very well, Enterprise. In the interest of interstellar amity, we will wait precisely one hour and fifty three minutes. But be correct. We do not tolerate deceit.
Scene: Medical Lab.
A bench full of bottles, and red stuff dribbling through curvy pipes.
Mccoy said: If we could only find the proper filtering agent, we might be able to solve this problem. Negative. It's the third failure.
The lab assistant is starting to go like Chekov.
Mccoy said: Nurse, take this sample and run an analysis on it.
Chapel said: Yes, Doctor.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Bridge to transporter room.
Scene: Transporter room.
Scott said: Transporter room here.
Spock said: Ready for interphase in twenty seconds.
Scene: Medical Lab.
Chapel turns to see the lab assistant about to strike McCoy with a metal bar.
Chapel said: Doctor McCoy!
The two men struggle, while Chapel prepares a hypo and knocks the attacker out.
Mccoy said: Thank you, nurse. Call security. I want to have some checks run on this man.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Lock on to Captain Kirk's co-ordinates
Scene: Transporter room.
Spock said: And prepare to bring him aboard, Mister Scott.
The transporter activates, but nothing happens.
Spock said: Bring him aboard, Mister Scott.
Scott said: I'm trying. Captain Kirk is not on his designated co-ordinates, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Well, keep trying, Mister Scott.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Lieutenant Sulu, evaluation.
Sulu said: Sensor readings are not corresponding to those we received the last time we saw the Defiant.
Spock said: It's possible the Tholian entry into the area has disturbed the space, and if that has occurred
Mccoy said: McCoy to Bridge.
Spock said: Spock here.
Scene: Medical lab.
Mccoy said: Has the Captain been beamed aboard yet?
Spock said: Negative, Doctor.
Mccoy said: When is that interphase going to happen?
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Theoretically it already has happened, Doctor.
Scene: Medical lab.
Spock said: However, the ship's sensors are not responding as predicted.
Mccoy said: I thought you had the thing timed out.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: I did, Doctor. The space was disturbed by the Tholians.
Scene: Medical lab.
Mccoy said: You mean you don't know whether you're going to be able to recover the Captain or not?
Spock said: Not at this interphase.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: I shall have to recalculate to determine when the next interphase will occur. They do not take place at regular intervals.
Scene: Medical lab.
Mccoy said: You can't wait for the next one. We've had another case like Chekov.
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: I had to confine my orderly to sickbay.
Spock said: I have confidence that you will soon isolate the cause, Doctor, and prevent further spread of the affliction.
Scene: Medical lab.
Mccoy said: The disease is not transmitted by the men, Mister Spock. The cause is the area of space we're in. It's affecting the whole crew.
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: The molecular structure of the brain tissues in the central nervous system are distorting.
Scene: Medical lab.
Mccoy said: And the madness that affected the Defiant's crew will soon happen to the Enterprise.
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: Now you've got to get this ship out of here.
Sulu said: Mister Spock, we're being fired upon.
The ship shakes to the impact of the blasts of energy.
Spock said: The renowned Tholian punctuality.
Uhura said: Mister Spock, damage control report. Minor structural damage to sections A4 and C13.
Spock said: Engineering, hold power steady and cut off all unnecessary expenditures. Mister Sulu, divert all but emergency maintenance power to the shields.
Sulu said: But sir, that'll reduce our phaser power by fifty percent.
Uhura said: Mister Spock!
Another bolt of energy is heading towards them.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: Scott to Bridge!
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Spock here.
Scott said: I know you don't like to use the phasers, but you've got to do something about that ship out there.
McCoy enters.
Spock said: Understood. Lieutenant Uhura, open a channel to the Tholian ship. Mister Sulu, lock in phaser tracking controls.
Sulu said: Phasers locked in, sir.
Uhura said: There's no response on any frequency, sir.
Mccoy said: What's the use of this battle, Spock? You've lost Jim. Take this ship out of here.
Spock said: Ready, Mister Sulu?
Sulu said: Ready, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Fire.
Sulu said: A hit, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Engineering, status report. Mister Scott?
Scott said: Spock, that hit from the Tholians has fused our power supply converters.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: I can't do a thing with the Enterprise now.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: She's bound to drift, maybe right through that doorway out there.
Spock said: Can you estimate minimum time required for repair?
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: I don't even know if she can be repaired.
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: Are you satisfied? Spock, why did you do it?
Spock said: The decision to fight was logical. Lack of time prevented any other course of action. The Tholian ship had to be disabled.
Mccoy said: You should've known what could've happened and done everything in your power to safeguard your crew. That is the mark of a starship Captain, like Jim.
Spock said: Doctor, I hardly believe this is the time for comparisons. Please go to your laboratory and search for an antidote to the effects of this space. That is your primary task, since we must remain here.
McCoy leaves.
Sulu said: Mister Spock, something has just entered sensor range. It's another Tholian, sir. Loskene must've contacted them when he tried to intercept us.
Spock said: Fascinating.
Sulu said: Shall I lock in remaining phaser power, sir?
Spock said: Negative. Lieutenant Uhura, can you open a channel to the approaching vessel?
Uhura said: They're refusing reception. I can't
Spock said: Distance, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Just beyond phaser range, sir.
Uhura said: What is that?
The two Tholian ships have joined stern to stern, and are now moving apart, drawing a thread of some sort out between them. Then they come back across the viewscreen creating two more lines.
Spock said: Mister Sulu, I shall run an analysis on those filaments. Tie in all sensors to the ship's library computer console. Switch scanners.
Sulu said: Yes, sir.
Five horizontal lines on the viewscreen.
Spock said: There's no analogy to this structure in Federation technology. It is, however, an energy field, and if the Tholians are successful in completing this structure before we have completed our repairs, we shall not see home again.
Now the Tholians are adding diagonal lines to the web.
Scene: Assembly room.
Spock stands on a raised platform, behind a lectern. Crew and officers are filing in.
Spock said: Doctor, your last report on an antidote on the effects of this space was negative.
Mccoy said: It's still negative, Mister Spock. Theragen is the most promising substance tested so far. We're progressing. SPOCK: The urgency requires your personal attention in the laboratory.
Mccoy said: My staff is working around the clock. My being there will not affect the biochemistry of any of the tests. This service requires my personal attention, Mister Spock.
He sits next to Scott.
Spock said: A few hours ago, the Captain elected to remain on board the Defiant so that three members of this crew would have the best chance of returning safely to the Enterprise. His concern was not only for them, but for all the members of the crew of this ship. You all know the sequence of events. We were fired upon by the Tholian ship. At that time, Captain Kirk may have been alive. I deemed it necessary to return the Tholian fire for the safety of the Enterprise. The Tholian ship has been disabled. But as a result of the battle, we must accept the fact that Captain Kirk is no longer alive.
A crewman goes berserk and is carried out by three security men.
Mccoy said: Take him to Sickbay. Put him in restraint.
Spock said: I shall not attempt to voice the quality of respect and admiration which Captain Kirk commanded. Each of you must evaluate the loss in the privacy of your own thoughts.
Scott said: Attention. (a respectful pause) Dismissed.
Everyone starts to file out.
Mccoy said: There is a duty to be performed in the Captain's quarters, which requires our presence.
Spock said: It can wait, Doctor. My duties require my immediate presence on the bridge.
Mccoy said: The Captain left a message tape. It was his order that it be reviewed by both of us, should he ever be declared dead. You have just declared Jim dead.
Spock said: It will wait for a more suitable moment, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Why? Are you afraid it'll change your present status?
Spock said: The mental and physical state of this crew are your responsibility, Doctor. At the moment, they are your top priority.
Mccoy said: The Captain's last order is top priority, and you will honour that order before you take over.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Mccoy said: (looking at a medal) He was a hero in every sense of the word, yet his life was sacrificed for nothing. The one thing that would have given his death meaning is the safety of the Enterprise. Now you've made that impossible, Mister Spock.
Spock said: We came here for a specific purpose, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Maybe not the same one. I really came here to find out why you stayed and fought.
Spock said: The Captain would have remained to recover a crew member at the risk of his own life or even his own ship.
Mccoy said: Yes, he would, Mister Spock, but you didn't have that decision to make. What would you gain by fighting the Tholians? You could have assured yourself of a captaincy by leaving the area. But you chose to stay. Why?
Spock said: I need not explain my rationale to you or any other member of this crew. There is a margin of variation in any experiment. While there was a chance, I was bound legally and morally to ascertain the Captain's status.
Mccoy said: You mean to be sure if he was dead. Well, you made certain of that.
Spock said: That is enough, Doctor. We both have other things to do.
Mccoy said: Yes, I have something to do. If this crew is to survive, I have to find an antidote to this space you've locked us into.
Spock said: You will return to your duty as soon as we've discharged our responsibilities here.
Mccoy said: There's no hurry, Mister Spock. The antidote probably doesn't concern you. Vulcans are probably immune, so just take your time.
Spock enters the combination to the Captain's safe.
Mccoy said: I must admit I don't understand you, Spock, but I just can't believe that you would want Jim's command. You must know that if you get us out of this situation, they'll pin a medal on your chest and give you command of the Enterprise.
Spock said: Doctor, I am in command of the Enterprise.
Mccoy said: I would like to remedy that situation.
Spock said: If you believe I have acted irregularly, then relieve me of duty. That is your prerogative as medical officer of this ship.
Kirk said: Bones, Spock. since you are playing this tape, we will assume that I am dead, that the tactical situation is critical, and both of you are locked in mortal combat. It means, Spock, that you have control of the ship and are probably making the most difficult decisions of your career. I can offer only one small piece of advice, for whatever it's worth. Use every scrap of knowledge and logic you have to save the ship. But temper your judgment with intuitive insight. I believe you have those qualities, but if you can't find them in yourself, seek out McCoy. Ask his advice. And if you find it sound, take it. Bones, you've heard what I've just told Spock. Help him if you can. But remember he is the Captain. His decisions must be followed without question. You might find that he is capable of human insight and human error. They are most difficult to defend, but you will find that he is deserving of the same loyalty and confidence each of you have given me. Take care.
Mccoy said: Spock, I, er, I'm sorry. It does hurt, doesn't it?
Spock said: What would you have me say, Doctor?
The intercom whistles.
Spock said: Spock here.
Scott said: Mister Spock, we have a readout on the Tholian tractor field. I think we can estimate its approximate completion time.
Spock said: I shall be there shortly. Doctor, I believe we each have our respective tasks to complete before the Tholians complete theirs.
Scene: Uhura's quarters.
Uhura is obviously off-duty as she has changed out of her uniform. She is just putting on a necklace when she is hit by searing pain in her body. Then she catches sight of a ghostly image in the mirror.
Uhura said: Captain! Captain Kirk, we thought you were
But the image fades away. She dashes out.
Scene: Corridor.
Uhura said: Spock! Mister. Oh, Doctor I've just seen the Captain.
Mccoy said: Of course you have, Uhura. We would all like to
Uhura said: He's alive. He's alive, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Of course.
Uhura said: Believe me, I did see him. I did. Spock! Mister Spock!
Mccoy said: We're going to Sickbay.
Uhura said: Doctor. Doctor, I'm not going mad. I did see Captain Kirk. I've got to get to Mister Spock.
She faints in his arms.
Scene: Engineering.
An engineer succumbs to space-madness and attacks Scott. Two others haul him off.
Scott said: Scott to Captain.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Scott to Captain.
Spock said: Spock here. Proceed, Mister Scott.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: One of our crewmen just went berserk, but we have him under control for the moment.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Report to Doctor McCoy all symptoms noted prior to the attack.
Scene: Engineering.
Spock said: Spock out.
Scene: Medical lab.
We can hear Chekov's cries as he struggles against the restraints in Sickbay.
Chapel said: Doctor McCoy,
Mccoy said: Yes, Nurse.
Chapel said: I have the diagnosis of the crewman who attacked engineer Scott. It was definitely due to the deteriorative effects of interspace.
Mccoy said: Yes, it's beginning to spread generally throughout the ship.
Chapel said: Are we any closer, Doctor?
Mccoy said: No, except I'm positive that it's a theragen derivative that's the answer. And it better be the next one.
The web is getting close to completion all around the Enterprise.
Scene: Sickbay.
Whilst Chekov writhes against invisible foes, Uhura lies quietly on the bed.
Uhura said: Mister Spock didn't believe me either, did he, Doctor?
Mccoy said: Well, nobody saw him but you, Uhura.
Uhura said: Then I didn't really see him, did I?
Mccoy said: I don't think so.
Uhura said: Will I become like Chekov, Doctor?
Mccoy said: No, no. We're working hard. We'll find an antidote.
Scene: Engineering.
O'Neil has a dizzy spell.
Scott said: We're beginning to interphase.
O'Neil said: I'm all right.
Scott said: Scott to Bridge.
Spock said: Bridge. Spock here.
Scott said: Are we slipping into interspace?
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Negative. We are relatively stable at the moment.
Scene: Engineering.
Spock said: Why do you ask?
Scott sees a ghostly image floating by the ladders to the upper level. It's Kirk.
Scott said: I don't believe it.
Then it is gone.
Spock said: What is it, Mister Scott?
Scene: Bridge.
McCoy enters.
Spock said: Mister Scott?
Scott said: Mister Spock.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: I've just seen Captain Kirk. He was standing there as plain as we are.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: And then he just disappeared.
Spock said: Report to the bridge immediately.
Mccoy said: Sounds like a horror story. Suppose there's any truth in it?
Spock said: In critical moments, men sometimes see exactly what they wish to see.
Mccoy said: Do you suppose they're seeing Jim because they've lost confidence in you?
Spock said: I was merely stating a fact, Doctor.
Mccoy said: It's getting critical. There have been a number of assaults down on the lower decks. Even Scotty's being affected. If Scotty goes under, that's the finish of whatever chance we have of getting the Enterprise out of here.
Spock said: Please leave that to me, Doctor McCoy. I realise that the crew are your prime concern. You can best serve them in your laboratory. I urge you to confine yourself to it until a remedy has been found.
Mccoy said: Spock! It must be this space. It's getting to me too. I know it's nothing you've done, Spock. I, I'm sorry.
Spock said: I understand, Doctor. I'm sure the Captain would simply have said forget it, Bones.
McCoy collapses as Scott enters.
Scott said: Mister Spock, look!
The image of Kirk is there, apparently calling out to them.
Spock said: Captain? Captain? Captain.
The image disappears.
Scene: Sickbay.
McCoy releases the straps on Uhura's bed.
Uhura said: Am I all right, Doctor?
Mccoy said: Yes, Uhura, you're fine.
UHURA; Then what I saw
Mccoy said: It was real.
Uhura said: Captain Kirk's alive?
Mccoy said: We all saw him. The Captain's still alive.
Chapel said: Nurse Chapel to Doctor McCoy.
Mccoy said: McCoy here.
Chapel said: Results of the last theragen test are ready for you, Doctor.
Mccoy said: I'll be right there.
Scene: Spock's quarters.
Scott said: Then your fears about that phaser were correct. It blasted a hole right through that crazy space fabric, and only heaven knows where it sent the Defiant.
Spock said: Exactly. But the Captain remained. Only the overlap time changed. The next interphase will occur here.
A diagram on a desk monitor.
Spock said: Can you be ready? SCOTT: That'll be about twenty minutes. Aye, she'll be back together. But we'll only have about eighty percent power built up.
Spock said: It will have to do, Mister Scott. (door buzzer) Come.
McCoy enters carrying a tray with a flask of orange liquid and three shot glasses.
Scott said: What have you got there?
Mccoy said: Compliments of the house. To your good health and the health of the crew.
Spock said: You've found the antidote, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Yes, and I've ordered it orally or intravenously for everyone aboard the ship. I would like for you gentlemen to drink it down.
Spock said: Ensign Chekov was affected so early. Has he responded to it?
Mccoy said: He's his smiling self again. I've discharged him from Sickbay.
Scott said: What is it?
Mccoy said: It's a diluted theragen derivative.
Spock said: Theragen? A nerve gas used by the Klingons.
Scott said: Aye. And deadly, too. What are you thinking of, Doc? Are you trying to kill us all?
Spock said: If I remember correctly, it caused fatality only when used in pure form.
Mccoy said: That's right, and in this derivative, mixed with alcohol, it merely deadens certain nerve inputs to the brain.
Scott said: Oh, well, any decent brand of Scotch will do that.
Mccoy said: One good slug of this, and you can hit a man with phaser stun, and he'd never feel it or even know it.
Scott said: Does it make a good mix with Scotch?
Mccoy said: It should.
Scott said: I'll let you know. (leaves with the remaining contents of the flask)
Mccoy said: Well, drink it down, Spock. It's the human thing to do. That's a medical order, Captain.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Welcome back, Lieutenant.
Uhura said: Thank you, sir.
Spock said: Your absence was keenly felt, Mister Chekov.
Chekov said: Thank you, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Estimated time for completion of the Tholian web.
Chekov said: Two minutes, sir.
Spock said: Are the ships computers programmed for entry into interspace?
Chekov said: Yes, sir. The ship can drive into interspace at any time.
Spock said: Spock to engineering.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: Scott here.
Spock said: Prepare for interphase in
Scene: Bridge.
SPOCK; Fifteen seconds.
Scott said: Aye, sir. Standing by.
Sulu said: Mister Spock, they're closing the web.
Chekov said: Interphase in ten seconds. Nine, eight
Scene: Transporter room.
Chapel and McCoy enter.
Chekov said: Seven, six, five
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Stand by with full power.
Scene: Engineering.
Chekov said: Four, three
Scott said: She's only up to seventy six percent.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: It will have to do.
Chekov said: One.
Spock said: Ready to transport on my order.
Kirk appears on the viewscreen.
Uhura said: I see him.
Chekov said: There he is!
Sulu said: It's the Captain. Sir, the tractor field is activating.
Chekov said: We're being pulled out of here.
Spock said: Try to maintain position Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: I can't, sir.
Spock said: Engineering, bring ship's power up to full capability.
There's a massive jolt, then the Enterprise disappears from inside the web and reappears in open space.
Uhura said: Where are we now, Mister Spock?
Chekov said: Captain, we have destroyed the Tholians' web.
Spock said: Negative, Ensign. Utilising ship's power has thrown us clear of it. Compute the distance from the original location.
Chekov said: At once, sir.
Uhura said: Have we lost the Captain?
Spock said: We shall soon see, Lieutenant.
Chekov said: The ship has been thrown exactly two point seven two parsecs distant from our previous position.
Spock said: Good. Since the Captain was locked into our transporter beam when we were thrown clear of the interphase area, he should've been drawn here with us. Spock to transporter room.
Scene: Transporter room.
Mccoy said: McCoy here.
Spock said: The Captain's oxygen supply is running out now. Are you standing by with a hypo of tri-ox compound for him?
Mccoy said: I'm ready, Mister Spock.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Prepare to transport on the Captain's co-ordinates on my order.
O'Neil said: Ready, Mister Spock.
Kirk appears on the viewscreen again.
Chekov said: Mister Spock, it's him! It's the Captain!
Spock said: I see him, Ensign. I see him. Now, Doctor.
Scene: Transporter room.
It takes a couple of attempts, but Kirk is beamed safely aboard and promptly falls to his knees. McCoy injects him while Chapel removes his helmet.
Kirk said: Bones.
Mccoy said: Welcome home, Jim.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: I had a whole universe to myself after the Defiant was thrown out. There was absolutely no one else in it. I must say I prefer a crowded universe much better. How did you two get along without me?
Mccoy said: Oh, we managed. Mister Spock gave the orders, and I found the answers.
Kirk said: Good. No problems between you?
Spock said: None worth reporting, Captain.
Kirk said: Try me.
Spock said: Only such minor disturbances as are inevitable when humans are involved.
Kirk said: Which humans, Mister Spock?
Mccoy said: He means when humans become involved with Vulcans, Jim.
Kirk said: Ah, yes. I understand. Well, I hope my last orders were helpful in solving any problems that you don't feel worth reporting.
Spock said: Orders, Captain?
Mccoy said: What orders are you referring to, Jim?
Kirk said: My last orders. The last orders that I left for both of you. The last taped orders.
Mccoy said: Oh, those orders. Well, there wasn't time. We never had a chance to listen to them.
Spock said: No. You see, the crisis was upon us, and then passed so quickly, Captain, that we
Kirk said: Good. Good. Well, I hope we won't have similar opportunities to test those orders which you never heard. Ahead warp factor two, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Warp factor two, sir.