For The World Is Hollow And I Have Touched The Sky
Stardate: 5476.3
Original Airdate: 8 Nov, 1968
Scene: Bridge.
The Enterprise is at Red Alert as six missiles head towards it. Spock is in the Captain's chair.
Spock said: Do we have maximum magnification, Lieutenant?
Sulu said: Yes, sir.
Kirk enters.
Kirk said: Missile spread, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Very archaic type, Captain. Sub light speed.
Scott said: Aye, and chemically fuelled to boot, sir.
Kirk said: Anything on communications, Lieutenant Uhura?
Uhura said: No, sir. All bands clear.
Kirk said: Course of the missile, Mister Spock?
Spock said: It would appear that the Enterprise is the target, Captain.
Kirk said: Prepare phaser banks one and two, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Mister Chekov, get a fix on the missile's point of origin.
Chekov said: Aye, Captain.
Sulu said: Phasers one and two locked in and ready.
Kirk said: Fire phasers. (the missiles are obliterated) Mister Chekov, alter course to the missile's point of origin.
Chekov said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Warp factor three, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Warp factor three, sir.
Scene: McCoy's office.
Chapel said: I am a nurse first, Doctor McCoy, and a member of the crew of the Enterprise second.
Mccoy said: You're excused. You may return to your quarters.
Chapel said: No, I'm sorry, Doctor. I've called the Captain and I'll wait until he comes.
Kirk enters.
Kirk said: What's the emergency?
Mccoy said: I said you were excused, Nurse. Please, Christine. I promise you I'll give the Captain a full report.
Chapel leaves.
Kirk said: That was quite a scene.
Mccoy said: I've just completed the standard physical examinations for the entire crew.
Kirk said: Excellent. What's the emergency?
Mccoy said: The crew is fit. I found nothing unusual, with one exception.
Kirk said: Serious?
Mccoy said: Terminal.
Kirk said: What is it?
Mccoy said: Xenopolycythemia. It has no cure.
Kirk said: Who?
Mccoy said: He has one year to live.
Kirk said: Who is it?
Mccoy said: The ship's Chief Medical Officer.
Kirk said: You.
Mccoy said: I'll be most effective on the job in the time left, if you'll keep this to yourself.
Captain's log, stardate 5476.3. I have just had the sad duty of informing Starfleet about Doctor McCoy's condition and have requested an immediate replacement.
Scene: Bridge.
The Enterprise has arrived at an asteroid.
Kirk said: Mister Spock.
Spock said: Yes, Captain?
Kirk said: Confirm Chekov's co-ordinates for the missile's point of origin.
Spock said: Correct, Captain. We are approaching those co-ordinates.
Kirk said: That object on the screen?
Spock said: An asteroid, two hundred miles in diameter.
Kirk said: Could the enemy vessel be hiding behind the asteroid?
Spock said: Negative, Captain. We've had that area on scanners constantly.
Kirk said: Then the asteroid is the missile's point of origin.
Spock said: Correct, Captain.
Kirk said: Full sensor probe, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Typical asteroid chemically, but it is not orbiting. It is pursing an independent course through this solar system.
Kirk said: How could that be? Unless it's powered. A spaceship?
Spock said: It is under power, Captain. And correcting for all gravitational stresses.
Kirk said: Source of power?
Spock said: Atomic. Very archaic. Leaving a trail of debris and hard radiation.
Kirk said: Mister Chekov, plot the course of the asteroid vessel.
Chekov said: Aye, sir.
Spock said: Asteroid has an outer shell, which is hollow. It surrounds an independent inner core, which has a breathable atmosphere. Sensors read no life forms.
Scott said: Then it must be on automatic controls.
Spock said: Then the passengers, or builders, are dead.
Chekov said: Course of asteroid, I mean spaceship two four one mark one seven.
Spock said: Interesting.
Kirk said: Yes?
Spock said: The course Ensign Chekov just gave for the asteroid would put it on a collision course with Daran Five.
Kirk said: Daran Five? Inhabited?
Spock said: Correct. Population approximately three billion and seven hundred twenty four million, if memory serves me correctly. Estimated time of impact three hundred ninety six days.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu, match Enterprise speed with that of the asteroid vessel. Mister Spock and I are transporting aboard. Mister Scott, you have the conn.
Scott said: Aye, sir.
Scene: Transporter room.
Chapel said: A lot can happen in a year. Please, give yourself every minute.
Kirk said: Doctor McCoy, Mister Spock and I will handle this.
Mccoy said: Without me, Jim? You'd never find your way back.
KIRK; Well, I think it would be wiser if
Mccoy said: I'd like to go. I'm fine, Captain.
Kirk said: All right, Doctor. If that's what you want.
Scene: Open ground.
Dead flat soil, rocky outcrops, orange sky.
Mccoy said: You'd swear you were on the surface of a planet.
Spock said: One fails to see the logic in making a ship look like a planet.
Kirk said: Wouldn't know this was a spaceship. Kirk to Enterprise.
Scott said: Enterprise. Scott here.
Kirk said: Transported without incident. Kirk out.
They go exploring and see large tubular structures sticking out of the ground.
Kirk said: No apparent opening.
Mccoy said: You found no intelligent life forms, Mister Spock, but surely
Spock said: The asteroid ship is over ten thousand years old, Doctor. Still no sign of life forms, Captain.
Two tubes lift up to reveal openings and aggressive men in plaid suits leap out and attack them. A woman watches. McCoy sees her and gets knocked out. Kirk and Spock are overpowered. The phasers and communicators are handed to her.
Natira said: These are weapons?
Kirk said: Of a sort. Weapons, communication devices. Let me go to my friend.
She allows Kirk to go to McCoy.
Kirk said: You all right?
Mccoy said: I think so.
Natira said: I am Natira, the high priestess of the people. Welcome to the world of Yonada.
Kirk said: I can't say I think much of your welcome.
Natira said: Take them.
Everyone gets inside the tube and goes down the stairs. Natira leads the way along a corridor. The people bow to her.
Scene: Oracle room.
Natira opens the door by waving her hands in front of carved symbols.
Natira said: You will kneel.
Kirk, Spock and McCoy kneel. Natira steps onto a pentagonal platform and kneels in front of an obelisk with a sun-burst on it.
Mccoy said: She called this the world. These people don't know they're on a spaceship.
Kirk said: They've been in flight ten thousand years. Maybe they don't realise it.
Natira said: Oh, Oracle of the people, most perfect and wise. Strangers have come to our world. They bear instruments we do not understand.
She stands and turns to face the three.
Natira said: Who are you?
They stand too.
Kirk said: I am Captain Kirk of the starship Enterprise. This is my medical officer, Doctor McCoy. My first officer, Mister Spock.
Natira said: For what reason do you visit this world?
Kirk said: We've come in friendship.
There's a sound of lightning.
Oracle said: Then learn what it means to be our enemy before you learn what it means to be our friend.
The away team are lit up as if by electricity. They collapse, unconscious.
Scene: Room.
They wake up in a nicely furnished room. McCoy and Spock are lying down, Kirk slumped over a table.
Kirk said: Spock. (he wakes) Doctor McCoy. Bones. Bones?
But McCoy doesn't wake.
Spock said: The doctor must have received an excessively large electrical shock.
Kirk said: No, that's not it.
Spock said: Nothing else could've caused this, Captain. At least nothing that has happened here.
Kirk said: You're right, Spock. The shock was serious because of McCoy's weakened condition.
Spock said: May I ask precisely what is troubling the doctor?
Kirk said: I don't think he would've told you himself, but I think you should know now. It's xenopolycythemia.
Spock said: Yes. I know of it, Captain.
Kirk said: Then you know that nothing can be done.
McCoy finally wakes up.
Kirk said: Bones, how is it?
Mccoy said: I'm all right. Are you all right, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Very well, Doctor. The Captain and I seem to have suffered no ill effects.
Mccoy said: Oh, that Oracle really got to me. I must be especially susceptible to its magic spells.
Kirk said: Spock knows.
Mccoy said: Well, we'd better get to the control room.
Kirk said: Are you in any condition to get up?
Mccoy said: Don't worry. I can make it, Jim.
Spock said: Captain, informing these people they're on a ship may be in violation of the Prime Directive of Starfleet Command.
Kirk said: No. The people of Yonada may be changed by the knowledge, but it's better than exterminating them.
Spock said: Logical, Captain.
Kirk said: And the three billion on Daran Five.
Spock said: Also logical, Captain.
Mccoy said: Gentlemen, I believe we have a visitor.
A silver-haired old man in purple and orange looks around nervously before bowing then taking a bottle from his cummerbund. He hands out tablets.
Man said: For strength. Many of us have felt the power of our Oracle. This has been of benefit.
Mccoy said: It tastes like an ancient herb derivative.
Man said: You are not of Yonada.
Kirk said: No, we're from outside your world.
Man said: Where is outside?
Kirk said: Up there. Outside, up there, everywhere.
Man said: So they say, also. (he winces in pain) Many years ago I climbed the mountains, even though it is forbidden. (another wince)
Kirk said: Why is it forbidden?
Man said: I am not sure. (wince) But things are not as they teach us. For the world is hollow, and I have touched the sky.
Now he clutches his head as he collapses in agony.
Kirk said: What is it, Bones?
Mccoy said: There's something under the skin. (a red light goes out) He's dead.
Kirk said: For the world is hollow, and I have touched the sky.
Spock said: He said it was forbidden to climb the mountains.
Kirk said: Yes, of course it is, because if you did you'd touch the sky and find out that you were living on a big ball. Not a planet, but a spaceship. And that knowledge seems to be forbidden.
Natira arrives with two women bearing food and drink.
Natira said: What happened?
Kirk said: We don't know. He just suddenly screamed in pain and died.
Natira said: (to woman) Fetch the guard. (kneels and prays) Forgive him for he was an old man, and old men are sometimes foolish. But it is written that those of the people who sin or speak evil shall be punished. (guards arrive) He served well for many years. Take him away, gently.
The body is removed, and McCoy sits down.
Natira said: You do not seem well. It is distressing to me.
Mccoy said: Oh, no. I'm quite all right, thank you.
Natira said: It is the will of the Oracle that you now be treated as honoured guests.
She goes to help the women prepare the food and pour drink.
Kirk said: You seem to be the special favourite.
Spock said: Indeed, Doctor. The young lady did show a marked preference for your company.
Mccoy said: Well, now. Nobody can blame her for that, can they?
Kirk said: Personally, I find the lady's taste questionable, but she obviously prefers you, and you obviously don't seem to mind. If you could arrange to be alone with the young lady, Spock and I would be left alone to find the power controls of this world.
Natira said: It is time to refresh yourselves.
Glasses are handed out.
Kirk said: Thank you, Mister Spock. To our good friends of Yonada.
Spock said: We are very interested in your world.
Natira said: That pleases us.
Kirk said: Good. Then you wouldn't mind if we looked around?
Natira said: Not at all. The people know of you now. (to McCoy) Are you well enough to go about?
Mccoy said: Perhaps not.
Natira said: Then why not remain here? Rest. We will talk.
Mccoy said: You are very kind.
Natira said: You are free to go about and meet our people.
Kirk said: Thank you. And thank you for taking care of Doctor McCoy.
Natira said: Not at all. We shall make him well.
Kirk said: Mister Spock.
Kirk and Spock leave. One woman offers a plate of food.
Mccoy said: No, thank you.
Natira said: Leave us.
The women leave.
Mccoy said: I'm curious. How did the Oracle punish the old man?
Natira said: I cannot tell you now.
Mccoy said: There is some way the Oracle knows what you say, isn't there?
Natira said: What we say, what we think. The Oracle knows the minds and the hearts of all the people. I did not know you would be hurt so badly.
Mccoy said: It's all right. I suppose we had to learn the power of the Oracle.
Natira said: McCoy, there is something I must say. Since the moment I. It is not in the manner of the people to hide their feelings.
Mccoy said: Honesty is usually wise.
Natira said: Is there a woman for you?
Mccoy said: No, there isn't.
Natira said: Does McCoy find me attractive?
Mccoy said: Oh, yes. Yes, I do.
Natira said: I hope you men of space, of other worlds, hold truth as dear as we do.
Mccoy said: We do.
Natira said: I wish you to stay here on Yonada as my mate.
Mccoy said: But we're strangers to each other.
Natira said: But is not that the nature of men and women? That the pleasure is in the learning of each other?
Mccoy said: Yes.
Natira said: Let the thought rest in your heart, McCoy.
Scene: Street cum Corridor.
Spock said: Incredible as it may seem, these people have no idea they're living on a spaceship.
Kirk said: I wonder how many generations have lived out their lives and been buried here without ever knowing that their world is hollow.
Scene: Room.
Natira said: The people, in the fullness of time, will reach a new world. Rich, green, lovely to the eyes, and of a goodness that will fill the hearts of the people with tears of joy. You can share that world with me, rule it by my side.
Mccoy said: How long will it take you to reach this new world?
Natira said: Soon. The Oracle will only say soon.
Mccoy said: If you only knew how I needed some kind of future, Natira.
Natira said: You have lived a lonely life?
Mccoy said: Yes, very lonely.
Natira said: No more, McCoy. There will be no more loneliness for you.
Mccoy said: There's something I need to tell you.
Natira said: There is nothing you need to say.
Mccoy said: But there is.
Natira said: Then tell me, if the telling is such a need.
Mccoy said: I have an illness for which there is no cure. I have one year to live.
Natira said: Until I saw you, there was nothing in my heart. It sustained my life, but nothing more. Now it sings. I could be happy to have that feeling for a day, a week, a month, a year. Whatever the creators hold in store for us.
They kiss.
Scene: Street cum Corridor.
Spock said: Captain, the Oracle room.
Kirk said: The problem, to get in.
Spock said: I believe that I can. (Kirks stops him as women walks past) The writing is definitely Fabrini, Captain. I recognise it.
Kirk said: Fabrini? Didn't the Fabrini sun go nova and destroy its planets?
Spock said: Yes. Towards the end, the Fabrini people lived underground, as these people do, to protect themselves.
Kirk said: Some of them must have been put aboard this ship and sent to another planet. And these are their descendants. (Once the coast is clear.) Now.
Spock waves his hand in front of some symbols and the door opens.
Scene: Oracle room.
Kirk said: The Oracle doesn't seem to know we're here. I wonder what alerted it the first time.
Spock said: Captain. If I remember correctly, the oracle's reprehensible conduct was initiated when Natira knelt on that platform.
Kirk said: I think you're right. Continue investigating. The clue to the location of the control room must be around here somewhere.
Spock reads the wall panels.
Spock said: Nothing here which would indicate this is anything but a planet. There's no question but that the creators would be considered gods.
They spot an unusual obelisk.
Kirk said: This plaque is a representation of a star and its solar system.
Spock said: Eight planets, Captain. That is the number in the Fabrina solar system.
Kirk said: Then there's no doubt these people are the descendants of the Fabrini.
Spock said: And no doubt they've been in flight on this asteroid ship for ten thousand years.
The door opens. They hide behind the obelisk as Natira enters and kneels on the platform.
Oracle said: Speak.
Natira said: It is I, Natira.
Oracle said: Yes, Natira.
Natira said: It is written only the high priestess of the people may select her mate.
Oracle said: It is so written.
Natira said: The strangers among us, the three visitors. There is one called McCoy. I wish him to remain here as my mate.
Oracle said: Does he agree to this?
Natira said: I have asked him. He has not yet given me his answer.
Oracle said: He must become one of the people, worship the creators, and agree to the insertion of the Instrument of Obedience.
Natira said: He will be told what must be done.
Oracle said: If he agrees to all things, it is permitted. Teach him our laws carefully so he commits no sacrilege, no offence against the people or the creators.
Natira said: It will be done, o most wise.
She gets up, opens the door, and electricity hits Kirk and Spock. She dashes back to the platform.
ORACLE; Who are the intruders?
Natira said: Two of the strangers, Kirk and Spock.
Oracle said: McCoy is not with them?
Natira said: No.
Oracle said: Kirk and Spock have committed sacrilege. You know what must be done.
Natira said: I know. (guards run in) When the oracle releases them, take them. Fools. You think we are children? You think you can do as you please, commit whatever offence amuses you?
Scene: Natira's room.
Mccoy said: What are you going to do to my friends?
Natira said: They entered the Oracle room.
Mccoy said: And the punishment is death?
Natira said: Yes. I can make no other decision. We gave them our trust, they betrayed us.
Mccoy said: They acted out of ignorance, Natira.
Natira said: They said they came in friendship.
Mccoy said: Please let them return to the ship.
Natira said: I cannot.
Mccoy said: For me? I've made my decision. I'm staying here, on Yonada. Natira, what they did, they did because they felt they had to. Please, let them return to the ship. You won't regret it. How do you think I'd feel if I stayed here with the chance to be happy for the first time in my life, but knowing my friends had died?
Natira said: Yes. So be it. This I will do for McCoy. For our happiness and future.
Scene: Planet surface.
McCoy hands communicators to Kirk and Spock.
Kirk said: You're returning with us?
Mccoy said: No, I'm not.
Kirk said: Bones, this isn't a planet. It's a space ship on a collision course with Daran Five.
Mccoy said: I'm on a kind of a collision course myself, Jim.
Kirk said: Doctor McCoy, I order you to return with us.
Mccoy said: And I refuse.
Kirk said: Bones, if we can't correct the course of this ship, we'll have to blast it out of space.
Mccoy said: I intend to stay on this ship, with these people, whatever happens.
Spock said: Your decision is most illogical, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Is it, Mister Spock? Is it really? Natira's asked me to stay, and I'm staying.
Kirk said: As her husband?
Mccoy said: Yes. Is that too much to ask, Jim?
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise.
Scott said: Scott here, Captain.
Kirk said: We're beaming over. Lock in on our signal.
Scott said: Aye, Captain.
Kirk said: And transport Mister Spock and myself immediately.
Scott said: But, Captain, what about Doctor McCoy?
Kirk said: He's staying, Scotty. Kirk out.
Scene: Oracle room.
McCoy is kneeling on the platform.
Oracle said: To become one of the people of Yonada, the Instrument of Obedience must be made part of your flesh. Do you now give your consent?
Mccoy said: I do.
Oracle said: Proceed.
Natira said: Say now, because once done, it is done.
Mccoy said: Let it be done.
She touches his head with the device in her hands.
Natira said: You are now one with my people. (she kneels beside him) May I give you the love you want, and make the time you have beautiful. MCCOY: We're now of one mind.
Natira said: One heart.
Mccoy said: One life.
They kiss.
Natira said: It is done, O most wise. Our living link with the creators.
Oracle said: Teach him, then, what he must know as one of the people.
Natira takes McCoy to the obelisk that Kirk and Spock were looking at when they got caught. She touches three of the planets and it opens to reveal a white-covered book.
Natira said: This is the Book of the People, to be opened and read when we reach the new world of the promise. It was given by the creators.
Mccoy said: Do the people know the contents of their book?
Natira said: Only that it tells of our world here and why soon, one day, we must leave it for the new world.
Mccoy said: Has the reason that the people must leave here been revealed to you?
Natira said: No, it has not.
Mccoy said: Don't you long to know its secrets?
Natira said: No. It is enough for me to know that we shall understand all when we reach our home.
Captain's Log, stardate 5476.4. We are on a parallel course with Yonada. It is still on a collision course with Daran Five. Our failure to correct its course and the critical nature of Doctor McCoy's illness made the extraordinary event of contact with Starfleet Command imperative.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Admiral said: Captain Kirk, I sympathise with your wish to stay, but I hope you recognise the necessity that you continue your mission at once.
Kirk said: That is the problem, sir.
Admiral said: Perhaps haven't made myself clear. Let me restate it. You have been relieved of all responsibility for the asteroid ship Yonada. Starfleet Command will take care of the situation. (end of conversation)
Spock said: I believe it's time to move on.
Kirk said: Yes. Those are the orders.
Uhura said: Captain Kirk. Bridge to Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Uhura said: An urgent call from Doctor McCoy, sir.
Kirk said: Put him on.
Mccoy said: Jim.
Kirk said: Yes, Bones.
Mccoy said: We may be able to get these people back on course.
Kirk said: You've located the controls?
Scene: Natira's room.
Mccoy said: No, but I've seen the book that contains all the knowledge of the creators. And if you
He gets a warning pain, but fights through it.
Mccoy said: If you can get to it, Spock
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Mccoy said: Can dig out the information.
Kirk said: Where is it?
McCoy collapses, crying out in pain.
Kirk said: Bones, are you all right?
Scene: Natira's room.
Kirk said: Bones, answer me! Bones, what is it? (Natira runs in.) Bones, what is it? McCoy, what's happening? What's happening, McCoy?
A short while later, Kirk and Spock beam in.
Natira said: You are killers of your friend. I will have you put to death.
Kirk said: Help him.
Natira said: Until you are dead, he will think of you and disobey! I will see you die!
Kirk said: Spock, take care of McCoy.
Kirk drags Natira away so Spock can remove the Instrument of Obedience.
Natira said: (in tears) He is not part of our people. You've released him from his vow of obedience.
Kirk said: We have freed him from the cruelty of your Oracle.
Natira said: McCoy.
Kirk said: Bones. Bones. You said something about a book. Where is it?
Natira said: They must not know.
Mccoy said: The Oracle room.
Natira said: You will never see the book. It is sacrilege! Guards! Guards! Guards!
Kirk said: Now listen to me. You must listen to what I have to say. Give me one moment to speak to you. One moment. Natira, if you don't believe what I'm about to tell you, you can call the guards. We'll accept any punishment you decree.
Natira said: What do you wish to say?
Kirk said: You must believe that what I'm about to tell you is the truth.
Natira said: Your truth, of your world.
Kirk said: Yes, my world and your world of Yonada.
Natira said: You don't obey the law of the creators. How can you understand my world?
Kirk said: I understand. I understand, Natira. Ten thousand years ago, a sun was dying and with it, its world. It's the world you see on the plaque in the room of the Oracle.
Natira said: That is a world of which Yonada is a part.
Kirk said: No. It is the world of your ancestors, your creators. It no longer exists.
Natira said: You are mad.
Kirk said: No, I'm not. Now listen to me! Hear me out. When your ancestors discovered that their world was dying they built a great ship and chose their best people. They wished for their race to survive. They sent the ship out into space.
Natira said: You wish me to believe that Yonada is a ship?
Kirk said: Yes.
Natira said: But we have a sun. It did not die. At night I see the stars.
Kirk said: No. You are living inside a hollow ball. Your ancestors created it to take you on a journey to a promised new planet.
Natira said: Why should the (she gets a pain) Why should the truth wait for you to come to Yonada?
Kirk said: Because a flaw developed in the controls. And unless we correct it, Yonada will kill millions of people and destroy a world it doesn't even know.
Natira said: Why should the truth be kept from us? Why should the creators keep us in darkness? No. No, you do not speak the truth. I believe only the Oracle. I believe!
Kirk said: Let us remove the instrument of obedience, the way we did for McCoy. Natira.
She runs from the room.
Kirk said: Do you think she understood me?
Spock opens the door, looks out, nods to passers-by.
Spock said: She evidently understood something. There are no guards to detain us.
Scene: Oracle room.
Oracle said: You have listened to the words of the non-believers.
Natira said: Yes. I have listened.
Oracle said: That was the first transgression. You felt the pain of warning?
Natira said: Yes, I did.
Oracle said: Why did you listen further?
Natira said: They said they spoke the truth.
Oracle said: Their truth.
Natira said: Is truth not truth for all?
Oracle said: The truth of Yonada is your truth. There can be no other for you. Repent your disobedience.
Natira said: I must know the truth of the world!
She falls unconscious, off the platform. Kirk, McCoy and Spock enter. McCoy cradles her as she wakes.
Natira said: Your friends have told me of your world.
Mccoy said: They spoke the truth.
Natira said: I believe you. I believe. The creators kept us in darkness. There's nothing I can do. I believe with you, husband.
McCoy removes her Instrument of Obedience.
Kirk said: Is she all right?
Mccoy said: She will be. I'll stay here with her. The book is in the monolith.
Oracle said: It is sacrilege to the temple.
Kirk said: We do this for the survival of the people of Yonada.
Oracle said: You are not believers. You are forbidden to gaze at the book.
Kirk said: We mean no desecration to the faith of Yonada. We must consult the book to help you.
Oracle said: It is blasphemy. You are forbidden. The punishment is death.
A strong wind blows, and some of the panels on the wall glow deep red. The air shimmers in the heat.
Spock said: Temperature one hundred eleven degrees and rising.
Kirk said: McCoy, how do you open this thing?
Spock said: Temperature one hundred fifteen degrees.
Mccoy said: Press the three lower planets on the left-hand side simultaneously.
Kirk does, and takes the book.
Spock said: One hundred twenty degrees.
Kirk said: Here. The plan must be in there. Is it indexed?
Spock said: Yes, it is.
Kirk said: Hurry, Spock.
Spock said: It refers to the altar. Apply pressure to the centre until it opens.
The altar slides forward, revealing a small door to another room which is also shimmering in the heat. A room full of 1960's IBM-style computers. Spock gets to work flipping switches.;
Kirk said: Let's get her out of the heat.
Scene: Control room.
Spock said: I've neutralised the heating elements.
Scene: Oracle room.
It cools very quickly.
Mccoy said: We'll be all right here now, Jim.
Kirk goes to join Spock.
Mccoy said: The oracle can no longer punish us.
Natira said: Your friends have prevented it?
Mccoy said: Yes.
Natira said: And will they send this this ship again to the land the creators intended?
Mccoy said: Yes.
Natira said: That is good.
Scene: Control room.
Kirk said: Active and functional. Not too different from the Enterprise.
Spock said: There seems to be a weakness in one of the eight tubes.
Kirk said: Enough to turn it off course?
Spock said: Yes. Let me check that engine. A very simple problem, easy to correct.
Scene: Oracle room.
Mccoy said: Then come.
They stand.
Natira said: No.
Mccoy said: Don't be afraid.
Natira said: I do not fear the punishment of disobedience.
Well, then, come. We must hurry to join
Natira said: No, I cannot go with you. It is not fear. I understand the great purpose of the creators. I shall honour it.
Mccoy said: You intend to stay here, on Yonada?
Natira said: I shall stay willingly, and because that is what I must do.
Mccoy said: Then I won't leave you.
Natira said: Will McCoy stay here to die? No. McCoy will not let go of life and the fullness of years.
Mccoy said: Now more than ever, I wish to search through the universe to find a cure for myself and others like me. And I want you to be with me.
Natira said: This is my universe. You came here with a great mission to save my people. Shall I abandon them? Perhaps one day, if it is permitted, you will find Yonada again.
Scene: Control room.
Spock said: I believe we can attempt the course correction, Captain.
Kirk said: Good. Going back to marked headings.
Spock said: Guidance control's taking over. I believe we can allow this ship to go back to its automatic control.
Kirk said: Steadying on course marked in red.
Spock said: (spotting shelves of discs) Captain. Intelligence files. Their banks contain the total knowledge of the Fabrini, ready for the people to consult when they arrive at their destination. (scans them) And they seem to have amassed a great deal of medical knowledge.
Scene: Sickbay.
McCoy is on the biobed. Chapel gives him an injection at Spock's signal.
Chapel said: Excellent, Doctor. The white corpuscle count is back to normal.
McCoy groans.;
Spock said: Your haemoglobin count is back to normal, Doctor, which indicates that the flow of oxygen to each cell of your body is back up to its abundantly energetic level.
Mccoy said: Thank you, Mister Spock, for bringing back the knowledge of the Fabrini.
Kirk said: Doctor McCoy, the Fabrini descendants are scheduled to debark on their promised planet in approximately three hundred and ninety days. I think that we could manage to be in that vicinity at that time, if you wanted to thank the Fabrini personally.