The Man Trap
Stardate: 1513.1
Original Airdate: 8 Sep, 1966
Captain's log, Stardate 1513.1. Our position, orbiting planet M-113. On board the Enterprise, Mister Spock temporarily in command. On the planet the ruins of an ancient and long-dead civilisation. Ship's surgeon McCoy and myself are now beaming down to the planet's surface. Our mission, routine medical examination of archaeologist Robert Crater and his wife Nancy. Routine but for the fact that Nancy Crater is that one woman in Doctor McCoy's past.
Scene: Planet surface outside building.
Kirk said: Shall we pick some flowers, Doctor? When a man visits an old girlfriend she usually expects something like that.
Mccoy said: Is that how you get girls to like you, by bribing them? There doesn't seem to be anybody around, does there.
Kirk said: They'll be along. You rushed us down ten minutes early. (enter building)
Scene: Crater's home.
Kirk said: Professor Crater? Professor? Mrs. Crater? Nervous, Dr. McCoy?
Mccoy said: Yeah, a little bit, I guess. You see, we walked out of each other's lives ten years ago. She married Crater, and for all I know she may have forgotten me completely. Of all the bonehead ideas, Jim, how'd I let myself in for things like this?
Nancy said: (singing outside, then enters) Leonard!
Mccoy said: Nancy.
Nancy said: Hello.
Mccoy said: It's good to see you.
Nancy said: Let me look at you.
Mccoy said: You haven't aged a day. Oh, this is Captain Jim Kirk of the Enterprise.
Kirk said: (seeing an older woman than McCoy does) Mrs. Crater. I've heard a great deal about you.
Nancy said: All good, I hope.
Mccoy said: And Crewman Darnell.
Darnell said: (seeing a young blonde) How do you do, ma'am?
Kirk said: Something wrong, Darnell?
Darnell said: Excuse me sir but, ma'am, if I didn't know better I would swear you were someone I left behind on Wrigley's Pleasure Planet. It's funny, you're exactly like a girl that
Mccoy said: A little less mouth, Darnell.
Darnell said: I'm sorry. I didn't mean to. I mean, I know it's impossible, of course.
Kirk said: Why don't you step outside, Darnell.
Darnell said: Yes, sir. Thank you, sir.
Kirk said: Maybe I'll step outside, too.
Nancy said: What? And let Plum examine me all alone?
Kirk said: Plum?
Mccoy said: Plum.
Nancy said: A nickname I gave Leonard when we were very young.
Mccoy said: I'll, er, I'll wait for the professor and I'll catch you both at once.
Nancy said: I'd better go get Bob. Every time he starts digging he forgets time, sleep, food, everything. Be back in a minute.
Scene: Planet surface outside building.
Blonde Nancy said: It's quite warm here, isn't it? (encourages Darnell to follow her)
Captain's log, additional entry. Since our mission was routine, we had beamed down to the planet without suspicion. We were unaware each member of the landing party was seeing a different woman, a different Nancy Crater.
Scene: Crater's home.
Kirk said: Professor Crater, I'm Captain Kirk. This is
Crater said: The heroic Captain and the intrepid doctor cross interstellar space to preserve our health. Your sense of duty is overwhelming. Now will you please go back where you came from and tell whoever issues your orders to leave me and my wife alone. We need salt against the heat. Aside from that, we're doing very well, thank you.
Mccoy said: I'm pleased you're doing well but I'm required to confirm that fact.
Crater said: Doubtless the good surgeon will enjoy prodding and poking us with his arcane machinery. Go away, we don't want you.
Mccoy said: What you want is unimportant right now. What you will get is required by the book.
Kirk said: Quote. All research personnel on alien planets are required to have their health certified by a starship surgeon at one year intervals. Like it or not, Professor, as commander of the starship, I'm required
Crater said: To show your gold braid to everyone. You love it, don't you.
Kirk said: He's all yours, Plum. Doctor McCoy.
Mccoy said: Sit down and breathe deeply, please.
Crater said: Did I hear you call him Doctor McCoy?
Mccoy said: You did.
Crater said: McCoy. I've heard Nancy speak of a Doctor McCoy.
Mccoy said: That's me. Didn't she mention I was here?
Crater said: You've seen Nancy?
Kirk said: She went out to get you.
Crater said: You've seen her too? You were with the good Doctor?
Kirk said: Yes. Why?
Crater said: Nothing. It's just that it gives me pleasure to know that she's gotten to see an old friend and has a chance for some company. It's different for me, I enjoy solitude. But for a woman. You understand, of course.
Mccoy said: Well, it certainly hasn't aged her. She looks exactly as I knew her twelve years ago. Amazing, Jim. Like a girl of twenty five.
Crater said: Sorry. I'm sorry, Captain, sit down. I seem to have forgotten my manners.
Kirk said: Quite all right.
Mccoy said: I'm not joking, Jim. She hasn't aged a day. She doesn't have a grey hair on her head.
Kirk said: She's got some grey, Bones. Excuse me, Professor, she's a handsome woman, yes, but hardly twenty five.
Crater said: You've seen my wife with the eyes of your past attachment, Doctor. I'm sure when Nancy lets, when you see her again she'll be a believable age.
Mccoy said: Well at any rate she doesn't look a day over thirty.
Crater said: Genuine affection. I'm glad you still feel it for her. Leonard, isn't it? She's a fine woman.
Mccoy said: Open your mouth.
Crater said: Why, I thought the machine
Mccoy said: The machine is capable of almost anything but I'll still put my trust in a healthy set of tonsils. Now, open your mouth. (a woman screams, they dash out, Kirk with his phaser drawn)
Scene: Planet surface.
Darnell is lying on a rock, Nancy is standing by him
Kirk said: (removing a piece of plant from Darnell's mouth) McCoy.
Mccoy said: Dead, Jim. Strange. A red mottling all over his face.
Kirk said: What happened?
Crater said: What do you suppose happened, Captain? You beam down a crewman who doesn't know better than to eat an untested plant.
Kirk said: I've just lost a crewman, Mrs. Crater. I want to know what happened.
Nancy said: Well, I, I
Mccoy said: Take it easy, Nancy. Just tell us what you know.
Nancy said: I was just. I couldn't find Bob, and I was coming back. I crossed to your crewman. I wanted him to know I wasn't offended by the things he'd said back there. You remember. Then I, I noticed he had a Borgia plant in his hand. Before I could say anything, he, he'd taken a bite from it. He fell, his face all twisted, and. Leonard, you're looking at me like you don't believe me.
Mccoy said: No, no, no, no, it's not that. It's something entirely different. Jim, I suppose we could complete these examinations later.
Crater said: We don't need an examination, you can see that. Perhaps you'd better take your man and
Kirk said: We're well aware of our next duties, Professor. We'll complete your examinations tomorrow. Transporter room.
Crewman said: Transporter room, Captain.
Kirk said: Lock onto us. Three beaming up.
Scott said: Locked onto you, Captain.
Nancy said: Salt. You did ask them about more salt tablets?
Crater said: I'll take care of the provisioning, Nancy.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Miss Uhura, your last sub-space log contained an error in the frequencies column.
Uhura said: Mister Spock, sometimes I think if I hear that word frequency once more, I'll cry.
Spock said: Cry?
Uhura said: I was just trying to start a conversation.
Spock said: Well, since it is illogical for a communications officer to resent the word frequency, I have no answer.
Uhura said: No, you have an answer. I'm an illogical woman who's beginning to feel too much a part of that communications console. Why don't you tell me I'm an attractive young lady, or ask me if I've ever been in love? Tell me how your planet Vulcan looks on a lazy evening when the moon is full.
Spock said: Vulcan has no moon, Miss Uhura.
Uhura said: I'm not surprised, Mister Spock.
Crewman said: Transporter room to Bridge. Landing party returning. They report one death.
Spock said: Bridge acknowledging.
Uhura said: I don't believe it.
Spock said: Explain.
Uhura said: You explain. That means that somebody is dead and you just sit there. It could be Captain Kirk. He's the closest thing you have to a friend.
Spock said: Lieutenant, my demonstration of concern will not change what happened. The transporter room is very well-manned and they will call if they need my assistance.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: She called it a Borgia plant.
Kirk said: Something new to me.
Spock said: Bridge to Dispensary.
Kirk said: Go ahead, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Borgia plant listed in library record tapes as carbon group three vegetation similar to Earth nightshade family. Alkaloid poison. Chemical structure common to class M planets. About the strange mottling on his facial skin surface. There is no reference to this symptom.
Mccoy said: Hmm. Well then, this man wasn't poisoned.
Kirk said: Stand by, Mister Spock. She said she saw him eat the plant.
Mccoy said: She's mistaken. I know alkaloid poison, what to look for. There's not a trace of it in his body.
Kirk said: There were bits of the plant in his mouth.
Mccoy said: Jim, don't tell me my business. He could not have swallowed any. My instruments would have picked up any trace of it whatsoever.
Kirk said: Then what kills a healthy man
Mccoy said: I'll tell you something else. This man shouldn't be dead. I can't find anything wrong with him. According to all the tests he should just get up and walk away from here. I don't know. I'll have the tests double-checked. My eyes may be tricking me. I swear, Jim, when I first saw her she looked just as I'd known her ten years ago. Granted, for a moment I may have been looking at her through a romantic haze.
Kirk said: How your lost love affects your vision, Doctor, doesn't interest me. I've lost a man. I want to know what killed him.
Mccoy said: Yes, sir.
Captain's log, Stardate 1513.4. In orbit around planet M-113. One crewman, member of the landing party, dead by violence. Cause unknown, but we are certain the cause of death was not poison.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Message, Captain. Starship base on Caran 4 requesting explanation of our delay here, sir. Space Commander Dominguez says we have supplies he urgently needs.
Tell Jose he'll get his chili peppers when we get there. Tell him they're prime Mexican reds. I handpicked them myself, but he won't die if he goes a few more days without them. Got it?
Uhura said: Got it, Captain.
Kirk said: Well?
Spock said: No mistake in our record tapes. Borgia plant. Its sole deadly property is alkaloid poison.
Kirk said: And Professor Crater and wife?
Spock said: Check out perfectly. They arrived here nearly five years ago. Visited by various vessels, made fairly heavy shipments out, of artefacts and reports. However, there has been a marked drop in shipments during the last year.
Mccoy said: Dispensary to Captain.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Mccoy said: We found something.
Kirk said: What is it?
Mccoy said: I'd rather not put it on the speaker.
Scene: Sickbay.
Spock said: Fascinating.
Mccoy said: So improbable we almost didn't check it.
Kirk said: What?
Spock said: Sodium chloride. Not a trace of it.
Mccoy said: This man has no salt in his body at all.
Kirk said: Can you explain that, Doctor?
Mccoy said: I can't, except that what we normally carry in our bodies is gone from his.
Spock said: He would die almost instantly.
Kirk said: How? There isn't a mark on his body.
Mccoy said: Except the red rings on his face.
Kirk said: You called that skin mottling.
Mccoy said: I thought it was, sir. Another error on my part.
Kirk said: I'm not counting them, Bones. Are you in the mood for an apology?
Mccoy said: Oh, forget it. I probably was mooning over her. I should have been thinking about my job.
Kirk said: Perhaps you were. Both Nancy and Crater went out of their way to mention one item they needed.
Mccoy said: Salt tablets.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, outfit a landing party. We're beaming down with some questions.
Scene: Crater's home.
Crater said: One might think that you had more important duties than harassing people, Captain.
Kirk said: I have, Professor. Believe me, I have. Where is Mrs. Crater? I want to talk to her, too.
Crater said: Captain, you can't just beam down here and bully us, and interfere with our work.
Kirk said: Mrs. Crater. I won't ask again.
Crater said: Possibly at the other diggings. We don't keep military logs
Kirk said: Green, find her.
Green said: Yes, sir. (leaves)
Kirk said: Mister Spock.
Spock said: Standing by.
Kirk said: Sturgeon, transport a sample of the plant to Mister Spock. We'll check if it's actually the Borgia plant or something we don't understand. (Sturgeon leaves) You got that, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Complete analysis.
Crater said: Captain, considering the inescapable fact that you are a trespasser on my planet
Kirk said: Your complaint is noted, sir. Look, something we don't understand killed one of my men. It could prove to be a danger to you and Mrs. Crater, too.
Crater said: We've been here for almost five years. If there were anything hostile here we would know about it, wouldn't we?
Kirk said: Bones, tell the professor what the autopsy revealed.
Mccoy said: Our crewman died of salt depletion. Sudden, total loss of it. Medically impossible by any standards.
Kirk said: And by coincidence, both you and Mrs. Crater requested salt tablets.
Crater said: And your esteemed physician cannot explain our need for salt tablets?
Kirk said: We're all aware of the need for salt on a hot and arid planet like this, Professor, but it's a mystery, and I don't like mysteries. They give me a bellyache and I've got a beauty right now.
Crater said: (opening storage box) Nancy and I started with twenty five pounds. This is what we have left. (a few tablets at the bottom of a jar) Now what is so mysterious about that?
Mccoy said: (checking tablets) Salt.
Kirk said: One of the missions of the Enterprise is to protect human life in places like this. I'm going to have to ask you and Mrs. Crater to stay aboard my ship until we find out what killed that crewman.
Crater said: But you can't do that.
Kirk said: But I can, Professor.
How? You've been here five years. Will a couple of days make a difference? Mister Spock.
Spock said: Spock here.
Kirk said: Arrange quarters for Professor and Mrs. Crater. Did you get the plant analysis?
Spock said: It is the Borgia variety, Captain. Could not have caused Darnell's death.
Mccoy said: Jim, he's run off.
Crater finds Sturgeon's body
Crater said: Nancy! You! Salt! I've got salt! Smell it! Smell it, Nancy!
Nancy is kneeling by Green's body. She stands at the call
Kirk said: Professor Crater! Professor Crater!
Mccoy said: Professor Crater!
Kirk said: Professor Crater! Professor! Professor!
Mccoy said: Jim! Jim, it's Sturgeon. He's dead.
Kirk said: We'd better locate Crewman Green. Green! Green! Crewman Green, report! Green!
Nancy changes into Green
Mccoy said: Crewman Green, report! Green! Green, where are you? Could it be Crater? He came this way.
Kirk said: I don't know. Green! (Green arrives) Did you see this?
Green said: Yes, sir. Sturgeon was dead when I found him. I was circling to find whatever it was.
Mccoy said: Same red rings on his face. Have you seen Nancy, Mrs. Crater?
Green said: No, sir. I checked all through the ruins.
Mccoy said: I'm worried about her, Jim. She's not at the quarters, she's not at the diggings. She could be in trouble. Nancy!
Kirk said: Crater!
Mccoy said: Nancy, it's Leonard!
Kirk said: We're beaming aboard the ship, Doctor.
Mccoy said: You can't leave her!
Kirk said: We can't search this whole planet on foot.
Mccoy said: Jim!
Kirk said: You could learn something from Mister Spock, Doctor. Stop thinking with your glands. We've equipment aboard the Enterprise that could pinpoint a match lit anywhere on this planet, or the heat of a body. Transporter room, Kirk speaking. Three to beam up.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: Kirk to Bridge.
Spock said: Spock here.
Kirk said: Break out the surface search equipment. I want co-ordinates on two people.
Spock said: Acknowledged.
Kirk said: There's a body down there. Sturgeon.
Transporter Operator said: We'll bring him home, sir.
Kirk said: You could use some sleep, Bones.
Mccoy said: All right, Jim.
Scene: Turbolift.
Kirk said: Bridge.
Scene: Corridor.
Rand said: Oh, Green, what went on down there? (he reaches for the salt cellar) Who do you think you are?
they enter turbolift
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Something odd, Captain. You said two people.
Kirk said: Professor and Nancy Crater.
Spock said: We get a reading on only one person, probably Crater. He's circling as if searching for something.
Kirk said: Expand search radius.
Spock said: Yes, sir.
Scene: Corridor.
Green is following Rand
Rand said: Why don't you go chase an asteroid?
Redshirt said: Hey, Janice, is that for me?
Rand said: Don't you wish it was?
Blueshirt said: How about that?
Redshirt said: Yeah, how'd you like to have her as your personal yeoman?
Scene: Life Sciences Section - Botany department.
Rand said: Where are you, Sulu?
Sulu said: In here feeding the weepers, Janice.
Rand said: I've got your tray.
Sulu said: May the Great Bird of the Galaxy bless your planet.
Rand said: Thank you. Hello, Beauregard. How are you today, darling?
Sulu said: Her name's Gertrude.
Rand said: No, it's a he plant. A girl can tell.
Sulu said: Why do people have to call inanimate objects she, like she's a fast ship.
Rand said: He is not an inanimate object. He's so animate he makes me nervous. In fact, I keep expecting one of these plants of yours to grab me.
Sulu said: Hello, Green.
Rand said: He's not talking today. You been nipping saurian brandy or something?
Beauregard starts screeching and slithers down into it's stem. Green rushes out
Sulu said: (stroking plant) Take it easy. Calm down. Very sensitive.
Rand said: He's the real spook. Suppose he's going space happy or something?
Scene: Corridor.
UHURA to crewmen The door to my quarters still rattles when it opens. Would you stop by and see if you can do something about it? Thanks, Bobby. Green changes into African crewman Crewman, do I know you?
Crewman said: In a way, ma'am. You were just thinking of someone like me. I'm guessing of course, but you do look a little lonely.
Uhura said: I see. So naturally, when I'm lonely I think of you.
Crewman said: Ina cuvanea mwanamke turee.
Uhura said: Una kafeeri Hur. You're Swahili?
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura to the Bridge. (the crewman begins to reach for her face) Lieutenant Uhura to the Bridge.
Rand said: I'd better get this tray back. Bye, Beauregard.
Sulu said: Wait a minute, I'll walk along.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura, report to the Bridge.
Uhura said: Lieutenant Uhura. On my way, sir.
Scene: McCoy's quarters.
Mccoy said: McCoy to Bridge. Captain there?
Kirk said: Kirk here. Nothing to report, Doctor. We haven't located Mrs. Crater. What's the matter, can't you sleep?
Mccoy said: Nope.
Kirk said: Try taking one of those red pills you gave me last week. You'll sleep.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: The simple fact is unless there's something seriously wrong with the ship's equipment, there's only one person within a one hundred mile circle.
Kirk said: All right. We'll triangulate on him. We'll let Professor Crater explain what happened to his wife. (to Uhura) Remember my instructions, Lieutenant. Keep a tight fix on us. If we let out a yell I want an armed party down there before the echo dies.
Uhura said: Yes, Captain.
Scene: McCoy's quarters.
Uhura's crewman has found McCoy's quarters, and transforms into Nancy
Mccoy said: Nancy. Well, come in. come in. I've been worried sick about you. I wonder why Jim didn't tell me he found you.
Nancy said: I'm so happy to see you, Leonard. The others, they, I, I don't relate to them as much as you. You have such strong memories of me.
Mccoy said: Well.
Nancy said: You do care, don't you, Leonard? It makes me feel so, so safe.
Mccoy said: Nancy, er
Nancy said: My husband? I like your feelings better. Much stronger. But you're tired, You need to rest.
Mccoy said: You're as bad as Jim Kirk. He's been telling me to take these.
Nancy said: I think you should. I'll get you some water.
Scene: Corridor.
a crewman lies dead, with mottles on his face
Rand said: Look at his face!
Sulu said: Bridge. Sulu. Trouble on deck nine, section two. We need a medical team.
Captain's log, Stardate 1513.8. I am now certain that the violent death of my crewmen was caused by some strange life-form.
Scene: McCoy's quarters.
Mccoy said: (lying on bed) I was so worried. Your husband acting strange, crewmen dying.
Nancy said: You're so tired, darling. Just rest now.
Uhura said: Medical department alert. Doctors and medics acknowledge.
Nancy said: It's nothing, dear. It's nothing. You just sleep. Nancy will take care of everything.
Uhura said: Dr. McCoy to the Bridge. Dr. McCoy to the Bridge. (Nancy changes to McCoy) Dr. McCoy to the Bridge.
Captain's log, additional. Armed and able-bodied crewmen are not attacked and slaughtered this easily. Apparently, the killer can immobilize them as it approaches perhaps with some hypnotic or paralysing power. The answer lies with Professor Crater.
Scene: Planet surface - ruins.
Kirk said: Professor Crater.
Crater said: Go away! We don't want you here.
Kirk said: We? Where's your wife, Professor? We're concerned about her.
Crater said: I'm armed. Go away.
Kirk said: Where's your wife, Professor?
Crater said: She's no concern of yours.
Kirk said: We're worried about her safety. Aren't you? Professor, you're a reasonable man, let me (comm. beep) Kirk here.
Sulu said: Casualty, Captain. Barnhart was found dead on deck nine. Same symptoms.
Spock said: Spock cutting in, Captain. Something here, through the arches to your left.
Kirk said: Stand by, Mister Sulu. Spock has something.
Spock said: Green.
Kirk said: He beamed up to the ship with us.
Spock said: Or something did.
Kirk said: Enterprise from Kirk.
Sulu said: Bridge. Sulu.
Kirk said: You have an intruder aboard. Could be masquerading as Crewman Green. General quarters, security condition three.
Sulu said: GQ security three, sir.
Scene: Corridor.
Sulu said: General quarters three. Intruder alert. GQ three. Intruder alert. General quarters three. Intruder alert. GQ three. Intruder alert.
Uhura said: Reporting GQ three secure, Captain. Do you require assistance there?
Spock said: Crater knows the creature. If we could take him alive.
Kirk said: Negative, Lieutenant, but keep locked in on us. Kirk out. Let's get him. (phaser fire)
Crater said: We don't want you here! We're happy alone! I'll kill to stay alone. You hear that, Kirk? Or you'll have to kill me. II don't care either way.
Spock said: Obviously, taking him alive is going to be difficult.
Kirk said: Set your phaser on one quarter. I'll leave mine on stun.
Spock said: Why risk your life for his?
Kirk said: He's not trying to kill us, he's trying to frighten us, and he's doing a pretty good job.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: GQ three now secured except for decks five, seven, and ten. Come in, please.
Uhura said: He's not in supply and maintenance.
Sulu said: Go to Engineering now. Run through file photos of the crewmen there.
Uhura said: Check.
Security said: Deck five reporting. Crewman Green is not in his quarters. No one has seen him
Sulu said: Keep in mind if you find him, he's not Crewman Green. The Captain reports Crewman Green is dead.
Rand said: And he, or rather it, followed me. I thought there was something twitchy about him.
Sulu said: He, whatever, was probably your crewman, too, Lieutenant.
Uhura said: He must have been it. You know, I would have remembered a crewman like him.
Mccoy said: The creature leading you a merry chase, Mister Sulu?
Sulu said: The creature?
Mccoy said: Or whatever it is that's killing the crewmen. Perhaps I can help. Fill me in.
Scene: Planet surface - ruins.
Spock and Kirk are circling around Crater from different directions
Kirk said: Set.
Spock said: Acknowledged. Crater! (Kirk fires his phaser)
Kirk said: Your wife, Professor. Where is she? Your wife, Professor. Where is she?
Crater said: She was the last of her kind.
Kirk said: The last of her kind?
Crater said: The last of its kind. Earth history, remember? Like the passenger pigeon or buffalo. Ooh! I feel strange.
Kirk said: Just stunned. You'll be able to think in a minute.
Spock said: The Earth buffalo. What about it?
Crater said: Once there were millions of them prairies black with them. One herd covered three whole states, and when they moved they were like thunder.
Spock said: And now they're gone. Is that what you mean?
Crater said: Like the creatures here. Once there were millions of them. Now there's one left. Nancy understood.
Spock said: Always in the past tense.
Kirk said: Where's your wife? Where is she now?
Crater said: Dead. Buried up on the hill. It killed her.
Kirk said: When?
Crater said: Oh, a year, or was it two?
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise.
Sulu said: Bridge to Captain. Sulu here.
Kirk said: It's definite, Mister Sulu. The intruder can assume any shape. Crewmen, you, myself, anyone. Do you understand?
Sulu said: Affirmative, Captain.
Kirk said: Go to GQ four.
Sulu said: General quarters four, Captain.
Crater said: The creature was trying to survive. It has that right, doesn't it?
Kirk said: Kirk to transporter room. Three to beam up.
Crater said: They needed salt to stay alive. There was no more salt. It's the last one. The buffalo. There is no difference.
Kirk said: There's one, Professor. Your creature is killing my people.
Captain's log, continuing. The Enterprise has been invaded by a creature capable of assuming any form, and with the capacity to paralyse and draw the life from any one of us.
Scene: Corridor.
Sulu said: Deck five, section three. Deck five, section three. Report.
Security said: Security 3 A here. 3 B in sight.
Scene: Briefing room.
Uhura said: Negative, Captain. I've checked every face on this vessel. It was not a crewman I saw.
Kirk said: Yeoman Rand, how long was this Green with you?
Rand said: As long as he, it thought it could get to the salt on my tray, sir.
Kirk said: Mister Spock?
Spock said: Supplies of salt have been set out as bait at all decks and engineering levels, Captain. However, no one or nothing has approached them as yet.
Kirk said: Dr. McCoy?
Mccoy said: Yes?
Kirk said: Medical department report, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Oh. Well, we could offer it salt without tricks. There's no reason for it to attack us.
Spock said: Your attitude is laudable, Doctor, but your reasoning is reckless.
Crater said: (eyeing McCoy carefully) The creature is not dangerous when fed.
Mccoy said: No, it's simply trying to survive by using its natural ability to take other forms.
Crater said: The way the chameleon uses its protective colouring, an ability retained no doubt from its primitive state, the way we have retained our incisor teeth. They were once fangs. Certain of our muscles were designed for chase. It uses its ability the way we would use our muscles and teeth if necessary, to stay alive.
Mccoy said: And like us, it's an intelligent animal. There's no need to hunt it down.
Spock said: A very interesting hypothesis, Doctor. Briefing room.
SULU [on monitor] All the halls sealed off. All weapons accounted for and locked away. Security four in effect on every level. Still no lead on intruder.
Kirk said: Thank you, Lieutenant. Continue the search. Crater, we don't know who or what we're looking for. We need your help, and now.
Crater said: I demanded, I even begged that you get off my planet.
Kirk said: Can you recognise this thing When you see it? Professor, I'll forego charges up to this point but this creature's aboard my ship and I'll have it, or I'll have your skin, or both. Now where is it?
Crater said: I loved Nancy very much. Few women like my Nancy. She lives in my dreams. She walks and sings in them.
Kirk said: And it becomes Nancy for you.
Crater said: Not because of tricks. It doesn't trick me. It needs love as much as it needs salt. When it killed Nancy, I almost destroyed it but, it isn't just a beast. It is intelligent and the last of its kind.
Kirk said: You bleed too much, Crater. You're too pure and noble. Are you saving the last of its kind or has this become Crater's private heaven, here on this planet? This thing becomes wife, lover, best friend, wise man, fool, idol, slave. It isn't a bad life to have everyone in the universe at your beck and call, and you win all the arguments.
Crater said: You don't understand.
Kirk said: Have you learned to see this thing in whatever form it becomes?
Crater said: Yes.
Kirk said: Are you going to help us find it?
Crater said: Sorry, I can't.
Spock said: Recommend we use truth serum, Captain.
Kirk said: Doctor?
Mccoy said: Well, I resist using it, but in this case the professor will give us the truth.
Kirk said: Take him.
Spock said: I'll accompany you, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Oh, yes. Of course.
Scene: Corridor.
Crewman said: Captain Kirk to dispensary. Captain Kirk to dispensary.
Scene: Sickbay.
Spock said: (on biobed) It wasn't McCoy. It was the creature. It hit me. Crater grabbed my phaser. I wondered about McCoy. Doubt had crossed my mind.
Rand said: Captain. Professor Crater.
Kirk said: Dead. But it had you, too.
Spock said: Fortunately, my ancestors spawned in another ocean than yours did. My blood cells are quite different.
Scene: McCoy's quarters.
Nancy said: Leonard. Leonard, wake up. Please help me. Help me, Leonard. They're trying to kill me. Don't let them kill me!
Mccoy said: Easy, easy. Nobodies going to
Nancy said: But you must help me!
Kirk said: Move aside, Bones.
Mccoy said: What's going on here, Jim?
Kirk said: She's not Nancy, Bones.
Mccoy said: Are you insane?
Kirk said: It killed four crewmen. Now Crater.
Mccoy said: It?
Kirk said: The creature. It kills. It needs salt to live. Bones, move aside.
Mccoy said: No!
Kirk said: My guess is she needs more. You want it, Nancy? Come and get it.
Mccoy said: You're frightening her, Jim.
Kirk said: Not fright. Hunger. Look at her.
Nancy said: Leonard, if you love me, make him go away.
Kirk said: Come on. You want this, Nancy? Come on Nancy. Come and get it. Come and get it. Here it is.
Nancy said: Leonard, help me.
Mccoy said: Stop it, Jim!
Kirk said: McCoy, get out of the way!
Mccoy said: Are you out of your mind?
Kirk said: Get out of the way.
McCoy and Kirk struggle for the phaser while Nancy grabs and eats the salt tablets. McCoy wins and is pushed away, then she transfixes Kirk and reaches for his face
Spock said: It's killing the Captain. Shoot it, Doctor, quickly!
Mccoy said: No! No!
(They struggle for the phaser. Spock
gets between Nancy and Kirk.
)
Spock said: It's killing the captain! Shoot, quick!
Mccoy said: I won't shoot Nancy.
Spock said: This is not Nancy. (hitting her repeatedly) If she were Nancy, could she take this?
Mccoy said: Stop it! Stop it, Spock! Stop it! (Nancy sends Spock flying with one slap)
Spock said: Is that Nancy, Doctor?
Mccoy said: No. (she goes to Kirk again) No!
She transforms into her natural state.;Kirk screams, McCoy fires the phaser, she changes back into Nancy
Nancy said: Leonard. Leonard, no. Leonard, please.
Mccoy said: Lord, forgive me.
He fires again and she dies
Kirk said: I'm sorry, Bones.;
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Ready to leave orbit, Captain.
Spock said: Something wrong, Captain?
Kirk said: I was thinking about the buffalo, Mister Spock. Warp one, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Warp one, sir. Leaving orbit.