The Day Of The Dove
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 1 Nov, 1968
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk, McCoy, Chekov and a security guard have beamed down to a planet with a green sky and occasional outcrops of vertical rocks. Their phasers are drawn.
Kirk said: Report, Mister Chekov.
Chekov said: Full scan. Results negative. Radiation level normal. Atmosphere and terrain are undisturbed. No evidence of a colony nor any residual aftereffect of a force that might have annihilated it.
Kirk said: Life readings, Doctor McCoy?
Mccoy said: Nothing. They said they were being attacked by an unidentified ship.
Chekov said: Which we were unable to detect upon approach.
Kirk said: An entire human colony, a whole settlement. One hundred men, women and children. Who did it? And why? (communicator beep) Kirk here.
Spock said: Spock here, Captain.
Scene: Bridge.
SPOCK; Sensors have picked up a Klingon ship, closing fast.
Kirk said: Deflectors on. Condition Red. Protect yourselves.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: Total reply if attacked. So that's the answer. Klingons.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Trouble aboard the Klingon ship. Evidence of explosions, massive destruction.
Scene: Planet surface.
Five furious Klingons beam down.
Spock said: Captain, the enemy ship is drifting, totally disabled.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: And we never fired upon her.
Scene: Planet surface.
Kirk said: Maintain Red Alert.
The Klingons arrive, and their leader hits Kirk with his disruptor, knocking him down.
Kang said: You attacked my ship! Four hundred of my crew dead. Kirk, my ship is disabled. I claim yours. You are now prisoners of the Klingon Empire against which you have committed a wanton act of war!
And a weird swirl of light hangs in the air a little way away. The Federation landing party are disarmed.
Kang said: For three years, the Federation and the Klingon Empire have been at peace. A treaty we have honoured to the letter.
Kirk said: We took no action against your ship, Kang.
Kang said: Were the screams of my crew imaginary? What were your orders, Kirk? To start a war? You've succeeded. To test a new weapon? We shall be happy to examine it.
Kirk said: There was a Federation colony on this planet. It was destroyed.
Kang said: By what? No bodies, no ruins. A colony of the invisible?
Kirk said: Yes, a test of a new Klingon weapon, leaving no traces. Federation ships don't specialise in sneak attacks.
Kang said: We have wondered when you would begin. You lured my ship into ambush by a false Klingon distress call. You will tell us why with the proper persuasion.
Kirk said: You received a distress call? We received a distress call.
Kang said: I don't propose to spend the rest of my life on this ball of dust arguing your fantasies. The Enterprise is mine! Instruct your transporter room to beam us aboard.
Kirk said: Go to the devil.
Kang said: We have no devil, Kirk. But we understand the habits of yours. I shall torture you to death one by one until your noble captain cries enough. Who will be first?
Chekov said: Cossacks! Filthy Klingon murderers! You killed my brother Piotre. The Archanis Four research outpost. A hundred peaceful people massacred! Just like you did here. My brother, you killed my brother.
Kang said: And you volunteer to join him. That is loyalty.
A Klingon places an agoniser on Chekov's face, and he screams. Kirk is held back.
Kirk said: Chekov! Stop the torture!
Mccoy said: Jim, you can't hand over the Enterprise.
Kirk said: Help Chekov.
Kang said: Don't plan any tricks, Kirk. I will kill one hundred hostages at the first sign of treachery.
Kirk said: I'll beam you aboard the Enterprise. Once there, no tricks.
Kang gives him a communicator.
Chekov said: Captain, you can't. Don't let these animals have the ship.
Mccoy said: Move aside. (he tends to Chekov)
Kang said: Animals? Your captain crawls like one. A Klingon would never have surrendered. Order everybody in this area to be transported up. All weapons on him.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise. Mister Spock.
Spock said: Here, Captain.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, we have guests. Adjust transporter to wide field. Beam up everyone in the target area. (and presses a button)
Scene: Bridge.
An amber light flashes by the Captain's chair.
Spock said: Understood, Captain. Transporter room.
The group is beamed up, and the weird light follows.
Scene: Transporter room.
Just the four Federation people materialise on the pads.
Kirk said: Full security, Johnson, on the double.
The security guard runs off, Spock enters.
Kirk said: Good work, Spock.
Mccoy said: What happened?
Spock said: Our landing party is intact, Doctor.
Scott said: All others suspended in transit. Who are the guests, by the way?
Kirk said: Klingons.
Scott said: Well, they're right in here.
Kirk said: Johnson?
Johnson said: Security on the way, sir.
Chekov said: Captain, leave them where they are. Non-existence. That's so many less Klingon monsters in the galaxy.
Two more security guards arrive.
Kirk said: Bring them in.
The Klingons materialise, and are quickly disarmed.
Johnson said: Move 'em out. Move!
Kang said: Liar!
Kirk said: I said no tricks after we reach the ship. You're a prisoner of the Federation of Planets against which you may or may not have committed an act of war.
Kang said: There are still survivors aboard my ship. SCOTT: Captain, we've not been able to get through to Starfleet Command. All subspace frequencies have been blocked, and there's too much radiation coming from that Klingon ship. It's a hazard to the vicinity.
Kirk said: Prepare to destruct.
Kang said: Completing the job you started?
Kirk said: You wouldn't be standing here if I had.
Spock said: First group from the Klingon vessel, Captain.
Six Klingons including two women materialise. They are hustled away except one.
Kang said: My wife, Mara, and my science officer.
Mara said: Kang, what has happened?
Kang said: More Federation treachery. We are prisoners.
Mara said: What will they do to us? I've heard of their atrocities, their death camps. They will torture us for our scientific and military information.
Kirk said: Apparently you have a few things to learn about us. Detain them in the crew lounge. Programme the food synthesiser to accommodate our guests. You'll be well-treated, Kang.
Kang said: So I have seen.
Kang and Mara are led away.
Kirk said: Secure from Red Alert.
Scene: Corridor.
The weird light hides as Kirk and Spock leave the transporter room
Kirk said: But maintain general quarters. Scan this sector for other ships. Run a full check on the colony. I want this thing nailed down fast.
Chekov said: We know what happened. That distress call.
Spock said: At the moment we received the distress signal from the colony on Beta Twelve A, the Klingons were too far distant to have been the attackers. Moreover, they also were apparently attracted by a distress call.
Scene: Turbolift.
Chekov said: Lies. They want to start a war by pretending that we did.
Mccoy said: Chekov may be right. The Klingons claim to have honoured the truce, but there have been incidents, raids on our outposts.
Kirk said: No proof that Klingons committed it.
Mccoy said: What proof do we need? We know what a Klingon is.
Leaves the turbolift.
Spock said: Our log tapes will indicate our innocence in the present situation.
Kirk said: Unfortunately, there's no guarantee that they will be believed.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Report.
Uhura said: Still no contact with Starfleet Command, sir. Outside communications blanketed.
Kirk said: Keep trying. We've got a diplomatic tiger by the tail.
Scott said: Transporter room to Bridge. Klingon ship is vacated, sir.
Kirk said: Very good, Scotty. Mister Sulu?
Sulu said: Forward phasers locked and ready to fire, sir.
Kirk said: Fire phasers.
The Klingon ship is vapourised.
Spock said: Sensor sweeps reveal no other ships within range, Captain.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura?
Uhura said: No contact with Starfleet as yet, sir.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu, change course to seventeen mark four, warp factor three.
Sulu said: Warp factor three, sir.
Scene: Crew Lounge.
Kang said: When I take this ship, I'll have Kirk's head stuffed and hung on his cabin wall.
Mara said: They will kill us before we can act.
Kang said: No, they wish to question us, learn our strength, our plans. They never will.
Mara said: We are forty against four hundred.
Klingon said: Four thousand throats may be cut in one night by a running man.
Kang said: Patience. Vigilance. They will make a mistake. Capture of the Enterprise will give us knowledge to end this war quickly.
Scene: Bridge.
The weird light from the planet is up near the ceiling.
Uhura said: (losing her temper) Captain! This doesn't make sense. Carriers are normal. Channels are open. There's still no outside contact! I don't understand it, sir. Could the Klingons be doing something?
Then the ship shudders as if from an explosion, and changes course.
Kirk said: Sulu?
Sulu said: Change in course. Accelerating. Helm dead. Auxiliary navigation dead.
Kirk said: Override.
Sulu said: Nothing responds, Captain.
Kirk said: Scotty, stop all engines.
Scott said: I would if I could, sir.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: The controls have gone crazy. Something's taken over.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Scotty!
Scott said: The engines, sir.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: They've gone to warp nine, by themselves!
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: New course?
Sulu said: Nine oh two mark five.
Kirk said: That'll take us out of the galaxy.
Uhura said: Captain, reports coming in from the lower decks. Emergency bulkheads have closed. Almost four hundred crewmen are trapped down there, sir.
Scene: Crew Lounge.
Kang said: Most interesting. The bulk of your crew trapped, your ship racing from this galaxy at wild speeds. Delightful. How did I perform this sabotage, Kirk? All my men are here.
Kirk said: Johnson. Get down to Security. Search every section. Some Klingons may have beamed aboard undetected from the wrecked ship. Then get down to Engineering and help Scotty hammer things back to normal. And free those trapped crewmen. (to Kang) And before I put you in the brig, there's a little something I owe you.
He punches Kang. A solitaire set on a table changes into a short sword which Kang picks up. A potted plant and 3D chess set become swords.
Kirk said: Phasers.
But they turn into swords too. There's a stunned pause then a brief fight as the Starfleet group get out of the room.
KIRK; Out!
Scene: Corridor.
Bald Klingon said: Stand and fight, you cowards.
Another brief skirmish and Johnson gets stabbed. They make it into the turbolift.
Kirk said: Sickbay.
The security men carry their comrade out.
Kirk said: Bridge.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: The Klingons are free. They're armed as we are. They'll try to take the ship. Scotty, how many men do we have?
Scott said: Three hundred and ninety two trapped below decks.
Kirk said: Deploy forces to protect your section and the auxiliary control centre.
Scene: Engineering.
Kirk said: Check the armoury, and try and free those trapped crewmen.
Scott said: The doors and bulkheads won't budge. We'll have to cut through.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Blow out the bulkheads if you have to. We need numbers. What kind of luck have you had controlling the ship's speed?
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: No, sir. She's a projectile at warp nine. And don't ask me what's holding her together.
Kirk said: Five-minute report. Kirk out.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Full sensor scan of the ship. Report on any movement by the Klingons. The Klingon Empire has maintained a duelling tradition. They think they can beat us with swords.
Spock said: Captain, neither the Klingon technology nor ours, is capable of this. The instantaneous transmutation of matter. I doubt that they are responsible.
Kirk said: Any other logical candidate?
Spock said: None. However, if they had such power, would they not have used it to create more effective weapons and only for themselves?
Kirk said: Mister Sulu. Get below. Take command of Engineering and auxiliary control.
Sulu said: Aye, sir.
Sulu leaves.
Chekov said: Captain. (he has a sword too)
Kirk said: Mister Chekov.
Chekov said: Captain! (gets up to go with Sulu)
Kirk said: Mister Chekov, as you were. Chekov!
Chekov said: Sir, let me go too. I've got a personal score to settle with the Klingons.
Kirk said: This is no time for a vendetta. Maintain your post.
Chekov said: Captain!
Kirk said: Chekov, maintain your post!
Chekov said: Don't try to stop me, Captain. I saw what they left of Piotre, and I swore on his grave I would avenge his murder.
Chekov dashes into the turbolift.
Sulu said: What's Chekov's grudge against the Klingons? Who's Piotre?
Kirk said: His only brother, killed in a Klingon raid.
Sulu said: His brother? He never had a brother. He's an only child.
Kirk said: Sulu, get down to Engineering.
Sulu said: Aye, sir.
Sulu leaves
Kirk said: Security, this is the captain. Find Mister Chekov and bring him to the bridge.
Uhura said: Captain, why would, why would Chekov believe he has a brother?
Kirk said: I don't know, but he does. And now he wants revenge for a non-existent loss.
Scene: Sickbay.
McCoy finishes bandaging Johnson.
Mccoy said: There. Those filthy butchers. There are rules, even in war. You don't keep hacking at a man after he's down. Hand me that numanol capsule.
There's a man with a head wound in another bed, and a security guard is brought in too.
{Science Lab]
The Klingons access ship's schematics on a desk monitor
Klingon said: Layout and specifications of the Enterprise, Commander.
Mara said: Enemy numbers are the same as ours. We have a fighting balance.
Kang said: Then we take the ship.
Klingon said: A ship that is headed towards the end of the galaxy?
Kang said: In time, in time. We must take these sections. First, Engineering.
Scene: Armoury.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Scott said: Scott here, sir. There's no use trying to free those men down below. The phaser torches, they won't cut through the bulkheads, nor the doors, nor the decks. There's something happened to the metal.
Kirk said: What about the armoury?
Scott said: I'm there now, sir, and you never saw such a fine collection of antiques in your life.
We pull back to see racks of swords, billhooks, pikes.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Get back to Engineering. Try to re-establish engine control, and talk to ordnance about manufacturing phaser replacements.
Scene: Armoury.
Scott said: Aye, sir. (spots a special sword amongst the ordinary ones.) A Claymore. You're a beauty.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: What the blazes is going on?
Spock said: Scans indicate that our forces and those of the Klingons are exactly equal at thirty eight each. The Klingons control deck six and starboard deck seven, while we control all sections above.
Kirk said: Constant surveillance, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Most curious, Captain. There appear to be more life-energy units on board than can be accounted for by the presence of the Enterprise crew plus the Klingons. A considerable discrepancy.
Kirk said: Could more Klingons have beamed aboard?
Spock said: I shall attempt a compensatory reading of Klingon units.
Scene:  Corridor outside Engineering.
Inside Engineering, the weird light seems to be bigger. Scott climbs up an access ladder to the corridor.
Scott said: Any signs of those devils, Mister Sulu?
Sulu said: All clear, Mister Scott.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott is talking to some engineers when they are jumped by Klingons. He backs out into the corridor where Sulu karate chops Scott's attacker.
Scene: Corridor outside Engineering.
Scott said: They've taken Engineering. I don't know how many more of those Klingons are around, but we'll split up here and try to make it back to the bridge.
Sulu said: Aye.
Scene: Engineering.
Kang and Mara come in to receive the praise of their crew.
All said: Victory! Victory!
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: No additional Klingons detected, Captain. It is an alien life force, a single entity. I cannot ascertain its location.
Kirk said: An alien life force. We must make contact, find out what it wants.
Spock said: Readings being diverted to the library computer for analysis. Computer report.
Computer said: Alien life force onboard is composed of pure energy. Type unknown. Actions indicate intelligence and purpose.
Spock said: What purpose?
Computer said: Insufficient data for further analysis.
Kirk said: A brother that never existed, a phantom colony, imaginary distress calls, the creation of these weapons. Do you sense a pattern, Mister Spock?
Spock said: If the alien is creating these events, Captain, it is apparently capable of manipulating matter and mind.
Kirk said: And now it has control of the Enterprise and taking us out of the galaxy. But why?
Spock said: Captain, I am constrained to point out that since minds are evidently being influenced, we cannot know at this moment whether our own memories are completely accurate and true.
Kirk said: We must talk to Kang, bury the hatchet.
Spock said: An appropriate choice of terms. However, it is notoriously difficult to arrange a truce with the Klingons once blood has been drawn.
Mccoy said: Truce? Are you serious? I've got men in Sickbay, some of them dying. Atrocities committed on their persons, and you talk about making peace with these fiends? If our backs were turned, they'd jump us in a minute. And you know what Klingons do to prisoners. Slave labour, death planets, experiments!
Kirk said: McCoy?
Mccoy said: While you're talking, they're planning attacks. This is a fight to the death. We'd better start trying to win it!
Spock said: We are attempting to end it, Doctor. By reason, preferably. There is an alien on board which may have created this situation.
Mccoy said: Who cares what started it, Mister Spock. We're in it! Murderers. We should wipe out every one of them!
Kirk said: The alien is the real threat. That's the enemy we have to wipe out.
Uhura said: Sickbay calling, Doctor. There are more wounded men requiring your attention.
Mccoy said: How many more men must die before you two begin to act like military men instead of fools? (leaves)
The intercom whistles.
Scene: Engineering.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Kang said: This is Kang.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Kang, there's something important I must discuss with you.
Kang said: I have captured your engineering section. I now control this ship's power and life-support systems.
Scene: Engineering.
Kang said: I have deprived all areas except our own. You will die of suffocation in the icy cold of space.
Scene: Bridge.
The power has gone off.
Kirk said: (dictating into PADD) The Enterprise is heading out of our galaxy, controlled by a mysterious alien somewhere aboard the ship. Engineering has been taken over by Klingons who have cut off life-support systems. Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Captain.
Kirk said: Get down to emergency manual control. Try to protect our life-support circuits and auxiliary power.
Sulu said: Aye, Captain.
Sulu leaves as Scott arrives.
Scott said: Sir. Chekov was right, Captain.
Kirk said: Scotty, I'm glad you've come.
Scott said: We should have left those fuzz-faced goons in the transporter. That's right where they belong!
Kirk said: Scotty?
Scott said: Non-existence! Now they can study the Enterprise, add our technology to theirs, change the balance of power. You've jeopardised the Federation!
Kirk said: Scotty, take it easy.
Spock said: Easy, Mister Scott.
Scott said: Keep your Vulcan hands off me. Just keep away! Your feelings might be hurt, you green-blooded half-breed!
Spock said: May I say that I have not thoroughly enjoyed serving with humans? I find their illogic and foolish emotions a constant irritant.
Scott said: Then transfer out, freak!
Kirk said: Gentlemen! (intervenes as they nearly come to blows.) Spock! Scotty. Spock. Spock! Stop it! You're half human! What are we saying? What are we doing to each other?
Spock said: Fascinating. The result of stress?
Kirk said: We've been under stress before. It's never set us at each other's throats.
Scott said: But this is war.
Kirk said: There isn't any war! Or is there?
Scott said: Have we forgotten how to defend ourselves?
Kirk said: Scotty. What's happening to us? We've been trained to think in other terms than war. We've been trained to fight its causes, if necessary. Then why are we behaving like a group of savages? Look at me. Look at me. Two forces aboard this ship, each of them equally armed. Has a war been staged for us, complete with weapons and ideology and patriotic drum beating? Even, Spock, even race hatred?
Spock said: Recent events would seem to be directed toward a magnification of the basic hostilities between humans and Klingons. Apparently, it is by design that we fight. We seem to be pawns.
Kirk said: But what's the game? And whose? And what are the rules?
Spock said: It is most urgent that we locate the alien entity immediately, and determine its motives and a method for halting its activities.
Scott said: Without sensors? All our power down? This thing could go anywhere.
Kirk said: Yes. Mister Sulu, report.
Sulu said: No good, Captain.
Scene: Jefferies tube.
Sulu said: Circuits are in, but systems just aren't responding.
Then the lights come back on.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: We're getting something.
Scene: Jefferies tube.
Sulu said: Aye, Captain. Power and life-support restored. Remotes on standby.
Kirk said: Good work.
Scott said: But, Captain, I didn't do it. Everything just came on by itself.
Scene: Engineering.
Mara said: Their life-support systems have resumed.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Sensors may be operating.
Kirk said: Start scanning. Let's find that alien.
Scene: Engineering.
Mara said: Holding steady.
Kang said: Cause them to be unsteady.
Mara said: They appear to be controlled from another location. Also unable to affect ship's course for return to our empire.
Kang said: One of Kirk's tricks. Could he bypass this circuit? What power is it that supports our battle yet starves our victory? Power. Interrupt it at their main life-support couplings. Where?
Mara said: Number six deck. (to Klingon) Come.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Alien detected in the engineering section, near reactor number three.
Kirk said: Let's go.
Kirk and Spock, armed with swords, leave the bridge.
Scene: Corridor.
The weird light hides as Chekov comes along. He hides, then kills the Klingon and takes Mara prisoner.
Chekov said: You don't die yet. You're not human, but you're very beautiful. Very beautiful.
He rips her top, covers her mouth and I'll leave his intentions to your imaginations. Kirk comes along in the nick of time.
Kirk said: Chekov!
He hauls him off Mara and slaps him twice, knocking him out.
Spock said: Jim, he's not responsible.
Kirk said: What have I done? (to Mara) There's an alien entity aboard the ship. It's forcing us to fight. We don't want to. We don't know what its motive is. We're trying to find out. You must help us. Take me to Kang. A temporary truce, that's all I ask. Spock, take her.
Spock and Mara leave
Kirk said: Chekov. Chekov. (picks him up) Is this what's in store for us, from here on in? Violence, hatred.
Scene: Sickbay.
It's very busy. Kirk carries in Chekov, followed by Spock and Mara.
Mccoy said: Brain waves show almost paranoid mania. What happened?
Kirk said: He lost control. So did I. We're becoming animal warriors. Let's go, Spock.
Mccoy said: Orderly. Jim. Johnson's heart wound is almost healed. Same with the other casualties. Sword wounds in the vital organs, massive trauma, shock. They're all healing at a fantastic rate.
Spock said: It would appear that the entity wants us alive.
Kirk said: Why? So we can fight, and fight, and keep coming back for more like some bloody coliseum? What's next, the roar of crowds?
Spock said: Perhaps human and Klingon psychologies and combat capabilities are being tested by an alien with designs on both powers.
Mccoy said: Gentlemen, if we are pawns, you're looking at one who is extremely sorry.
Spock said: I understand, Doctor. I, too, felt a brief surge of racial bigotry. Most distasteful.
Kirk said: Let's find the alien. (to Mara) You come with us. Maybe we can prove to you that it exists.
{Corridor]
The weird light is up ahead of them and glowing red.
Kirk said: What is it?
Spock said: Totally unfamiliar.
Kirk said: What do you want? What are you doing here?
Johnson said: Reporting for duty, sir.
Kirk said: Duty? Did McCoy release you from Sickbay?
Johnson said: I released myself.
Kirk said: Then get back to Sickbay!
Johnson said: Not on your life, sir. I'm fit and ready for action. The Klingons almost did me in once. I'm out to even the score.
Kirk said: I order you
Johnson said: I've got my orders. I'm obeying orders! Kill the Klingons! It's them or us, isn't it?
Kirk said: Johnson!
They cross swords, but Spock neck-pinches Johnson.
The light becomes yellow.
Spock said: Fascinating. During Lieutenant Johnson's emotional outburst, his expression of hatred and lust for vengeance, the alien's life energy level increased. When the Lieutenant became unconscious, the alien lost energy.
Kirk said: It subsists on the emotions of others.
Spock said: This one appears to be strengthened by mental irradiations of hostility, violent intentions.
Kirk said: It exists on the hate of others.
Spock said: To put it simply. And it has acted as a catalyst, creating this situation in order to satisfy that need. It has brought together opposing forces, provided crude instruments in an effort to promote the most violent mode of conflict.
Kirk said: And kept numbers and resources balanced, so that it can maintain a constant state of violence. It's got to have a vulnerable area. We've got to get rid of it.
Spock said: Then all hostile attitudes on board must be eliminated. The fighting must end and soon.
Kirk said: Or we're a doomed ship, travelling forever between galaxies, filled with eternal bloodlust, eternal warfare. Kang has got to listen. We've got to pool our knowledge and get rid of this thing. (goes to intercom) Kang. Kang, this is Captain Kirk.
Scene: Engineering.
Kirk said: Kang, do you read me?
Scene: Corridor.
Mara said: Commander, it's a trick!
Kirk said: Kang. (switches off intercom) He won't answer.
Spock said: The alien is affecting his mind, Captain. Soon, it will become so powerful that none of us will be able to resist it.
Scott said: Scotty, sir.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: The ship's dilithium crystals are deteriorating. We can't stop the process.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: Time factor?
Scott said: In twelve minutes, we'll be totally without engine power.
Kirk said: Well, do whatever you can. Kirk out.
The weird light floats off through a bulkhead
Kirk said: And so we drift in space, with only hatred and bloodshed aboard. Now do you believe?
Captain's log, stardate Armageddon. We must find a way to defeat the alien force of hate that has taken over the Enterprise. Stop the war now, or spend eternity in futile bloody violence.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: There's no change, Captain. The dilithium crystals are discharging.
Spock said: There's nothing we can do about it.
Kirk said: If I could talk to Kang, somehow cut through the Klingon lines, make peace before it's too late.
Spock said: We have nine minutes, fifty three seconds to power zero. SPOCK: There is, of course, a logical alternative. Kang's wife is, after all, our prisoner. Perhaps a threat.
Scott said: Aye. Now that's something the Klingons would understand.
Kirk said: Kang! Kang, this is Captain Kirk.
Scene: Engineering.
Kirk said: I know you can hear me, so don't cut me off. We have Mara, your wife. We talk truce now, or she dies. Reply.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: She has five seconds to live. Reply.
Scene: Engineering.
Kang said: She is a victim of war, Captain.
Scene: Bridge.
Kang said: She understands.
Kirk said: He called my bluff.
Mara said: You're not going
Kirk said: The Federation doesn't kill or mistreat its prisoners. You've been listening to propaganda, fables. How much time?
Spock said: Eight minutes, forty two seconds.
Mara said: So this was no trick?
Scott said: It's the alien that's done this. We're in its power, our people and yours.
Kirk said: We only wanted to stop the fighting to save us all.
Mara said: We have always fought. We must. We are hunters, Captain, tracking and taking what we need. There are poor planets in the Klingon systems, we must push outward if we are to survive.
Kirk said: There's another way to survive. Mutual trust and help.
Mara said: I will help you now.
Kirk said: How?
Mara said: I will take you to Kang. I will add my voice to yours.
Scott said: I wouldn't trust her, Captain.
Kirk said: We can't get through the Klingon defences in time, unless. Spock. Intra-ship beaming from one section to another. It's possible?
Spock said: It has rarely been done because of the danger involved. Pinpoint accuracy is required. If the transportee should materialise inside a solid object, a deck or wall.
Scott said: Even if it could work, she may be leading you into a trap.
Kirk said: We're all in a trap. This is the only way out.
Scott said: We'll go with you.
Kirk said: No. That'd start the final battle. I believe her. Prepare the transporter. We'll wait for your signal.
Kirk and Mara leave.
Scott said: But she can't guarantee that Kang will stop to listen, right, Mister Spock?
Spock said: No one can guarantee the actions of another.
Scene: Transporter room.
Spock said: Your automatic setting is laid in, Captain.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: When transporter is energised, you will have eight seconds to get to the pads.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: I hope your computations are correct, Mister Spock.
Spock said: You'll know in seven point nine seconds, Captain.
They dash to the pads, then Kirk returns to the console to leave his cutlass behind.
Scene: Engineering.
Kirk and Mara beam in.
Kang said: Mara, you're alive, and you bring us a prize.
Mara said: Kang, wait. He's come alone, unarmed. He must talk to you.
Kang said: Brave captain, what about?
Mara said: No! Listen to him. We are all in danger.
The weird light is glowing blood red.
Kirk said: Mara. Before you start killing, give me one minute.
Kang swings his sword at Kirk's head, and Mara intervenes.
Mara said: Kang, don't!
Kang said: What have they done to you, Mara? Are you out of your mind? What have they done to you? (sees the torn tunic) I see why the human beast did not kill you.
Mara said: They didn't harm me. Listen to him.
Kang pushes her aside, so she throws Kirk a sword. The two leaders have an old-fashioned sword fight. Stop! Stop, please!
Kang said: With your death, we win.
Kirk said: Nobody wins. Have any more of your men died? We can't be killed. There's an alien aboard. It wants us alive.
Kang said: No doubt you will reassemble after I have hacked you to bits!
Mara said: You fool.
A contingent of Federation including McCoy and Spock take on the rest of the Klingons in the corridor. Spock cheats with his neck-pinch. Finally Kirk gets the point of his sword at Kang's throat.
Kirk said: Look! Look, Kang. For the rest of our lives. A thousand lifetimes. Senseless violence, fighting, while an alien has total control over us.
Kirk throws away his sword.
Kirk said: All right. All right. In the heart. In the head. I won't stay dead. Next time I'll do the same to you. I'll kill you. And it goes on, the good old game of war, pawn against pawn! Stopping the bad guys. While somewhere, something sits back and laughs and starts it all over again.
Mccoy said: Let's jump him.
Spock said: Those who hate and fight must stop themselves, Doctor. Otherwise, it is not stopped.
Mara said: Kang, I am your wife. I'm a Klingon. Would I lie for them? Listen to Kirk. He is telling the truth.
Kirk said: Be a pawn, be a toy, be a good soldier that never questions orders.
Kang looks at the weird light, then throws down his sword.
Kang said: Klingons kill for their own purposes.
Spock said: All fighting must end, Captain, to weaken the alien before our dilithium crystals are gone.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura.
Uhura said: Yes, Captain?
Kirk said: Put me on ship-wide intercom.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Kang.
Uhura said: Ready, Captain.
Kirk said: This is Captain Kirk. A truce is ordered. The fighting is over. Lay down your weapons.
Kang said: This is Kang. Cease hostilities. Disarm.
The fighting stops. The weird light turns orange.
Spock said: The cessation of violence appears to have weakened it, Captain. I suggest that good spirits might make an effective weapon.
Kirk said: Get off my ship. You're a dead duck here. You're powerless. We know about you, and we don't want to play. Maybe there are others like you around. Maybe you've caused a lot of suffering, a lot of history, but that's all over. We'll be on guard now, ready for you. So ship out! Come on! Haul it!
Mccoy said: Yeah, out already.
Kang said: Out! We need no urging to hate humans. But for the present, only a fool fights in a burning house. Out!
(To the sound of laughter, the weird light turns to white and leaves the Enterprise.