And The Children Shall Lead
Stardate: 5029.5
Original Airdate: 11 Oct, 1968
Captain's Log, stardate 5029.5. Responding to a distress call from our scientific colony on Triacus. We are beaming down to investigate.
Scene: Planet surface.
On the ground, beneath a purple sky, adults are lying motionless. Kirk, McCoy and Spock investigate. One man gets up from behind a rock.
Kirk said: Professor Starnes? (the man has a phaser, and looks terrified.) It's Kirk.
The man collapses without speaking.
Mccoy said: He's dead, Captain.
Kirk said: He didn't seem to know me.
Kirk takes the dead man's tricorder, then goes over to a woman and removes a vial from her mouth.
Mccoy said: Cyalodin.
Kirk said: Self-inflicted.
Kirk replays the tricorder.
Starnes said: Must destroy ourselves! Alien upon us. The enemy from within. The enemy!
Kirk said: All this. Self-inflicted. Mass suicide.
The sound of children playing, then the kids run into the scene. There's a girl, three small boys and one older boy.
Mary said: You missed me.
Steve said: I did not.
Tommy said: Hi. Who are you?
Kirk said: Kirk of the starship Enterprise.
Tommy said: I'm Tommy Starnes. This is Mary, Steve, Ray, and Don.
Mary said: Come on. Play with us. Come on. (They make a circle and dance around Kirk.) Ring around the rosy, pocket full of posy. Ashes, ashes, we all fall down! Ring around the rosy, pocket full of posy. Ashes, ashes, we all fall down!
Captain's log, supplementary. We have buried the members of the Starnes exploration party. Everyone has been deeply affected by what has happened here, with some important exceptions.
Scene: Planet surface.
Grave markers with just surnames stand behind one or two mounds of soil. Kirk plants a UFP standard. The children have had enough.
Mary said: Let's go and play.
They run off to the cave entrance and play tag
Kirk said: No sign of grief?
Mccoy said: No, Jim. No indication of any kind.
Kirk said: Or of fear.
Mccoy said: They seem completely secure and unafraid.
Kirk said: And you insist their behaviour indicates traumatic shock?
Mccoy said: I don't insist, Jim, but I can't dismiss the possibility.
Kirk said: A child suppresses the fact that both parents are dead? I can't believe it.
Spock said: Humans do have an amazing capacity for believing what they choose and excluding that which is painful.
Kirk said: Not these children, to this extent. It's incredible.
Mccoy said: What those children saw is incredible, Jim. The way those deaths occurred, any reaction is possible including lacunar amnesia. That's my diagnosis. Until specific tests can be made, it remains that.
Kirk said: I'll be guided by that opinion, Doctor, for the present. What about questioning them?
Mccoy said: Not until the fabric of the traumatisation weakens or you come up with another explanation for their behaviour. Forcing them to see this experience now could cause permanent damage.
Kirk said: Accepted, Doctor.
One of the boys knocks over the UFP standard.
Kirk said: Careful.
Don said: I'm, I'm sorry, Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Children. Children, listen to me. It's late and it's time to go up to the ship.
Don said: Oh, not yet.
Mary said: But we're just beginning to have fun.
Ray said: Not now.
Kirk said: I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You'll go up with the doctor.
Mccoy said: Come on. It's time to be going.
Kirk said: Whatever happened here is locked up inside those children.
Spock said: The attack on Professor Starnes' party must surely have been unprovoked.
Kirk said: Attack? Mass suicide is what it seems to be.
Spock said: I stand corrected, Captain. Induced would be a more precise term. Induced by an outside force.
Kirk said: Such as?
Spock said: The release of bacteria. Or a helpless mental depression and a state of suicidal anxiety could have been chemically induced.
Kirk said: What would make the children immune?
Spock said: I do not know, but it is possible.
Kirk said: Then the children would have been exempted by conscious design.
Spock said: A valid assumption, I would say.
Kirk said: And their present behaviour explained by a fear of punishment. SPOCK: Or the promise of reward.
Kirk said: An attack by an unknown assailant on an uninhabited planet. This planet is uninhabited, Mister Spock, to the best of our information?
Spock said: At present, yes. (his tricorder beeps) Odd.
Kirk said: Getting a reading?
Spock said: There seems to be some disturbance coming from that cave.
Scene: Cave.
Kirk said: Picking up any life-forms, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Definitely not humanoid, Captain. Impossible to make any specific identification. The readings do not correlate with any known information.
Kirk said: (shivers) Oh, that's strange. That's very strange. I'm getting a feeling of anxiety in this place. It doesn't sound very scientific, does it? But it's strongest right here.
Spock said: I'm not aware of it, Captain.
Kirk said: Maybe that's what's registering on your tricorder.
Spock said: I am not familiar with anxiety, but I wasn't aware it could be registered on sensors.
Kirk said: No, of course. That's, that's me. That's me. But what's causing your tricorder to react?
Kirk dashes out of the cave.
Scene: Planet surface.
Spock said: Are you all right, Captain?
Kirk said: Yes, I'm fine. I'm fine. Just some sympathetic vibration with what happened here. Let's get back to the ship. I want to check out those tapes from Professor Starnes' tricorder. And I am going to question those children.
Scene: Rec room.
I assume it is, although there are a lot more plants around the room than we usually see.
Chapel said: All right, children. Each card is a different flavour. You take your pick, and the computer will mix your favourite combination. Now, what would you like? Call out your favourites.
All said: Vanilla! Chocolate! Cherry! Banana!
The kids grab cards and dash to the food dispensers.
Chapel said: Well, would you like a surprise, Stevie?
Steve said: (he gets his ice cream) It's coconut and vanilla. They're both white.
Chapel said: There, there now, Stevie. There are unpleasant surprises as well as pleasant ones. That was your unpleasant surprise. Now, what would you like for your pleasant surprise?
Steve said: Chocolate wobble and pistachio.
Chapel said: Well, coming right up.
Steve said: And peach.
Chapel said: All right. It's going to be a wonderful surprise.
This bowl is a lot bigger.
Scene: Corridor.
Mccoy said: The tests show no evidence of tensions due to lying. They behave as though nothing had gone wrong. They check out sound physically. There are no signs of any foreign biochemical substances to account for their present state. I have no answers, Jim.
Kirk said: There has to be an answer.
Mccoy said: Well, can't it wait till we get to a Starbase hospital so they can be checked out by child specialists?
Kirk said: We're not leaving here until we find out what went on or what's going on.
Mccoy said: Well, I won't prevent you questioning them, but it could harm the children if you do.
Kirk said: It could be far worse for them if I don't, and for us too.
Mccoy said: Be careful.
Scene: Rec room.
Chapel said: After this, we can all play games.
Kids said: Yeah.
Kirk enters.
Chapel said: How do you like getting ice cream out of a computer?
Mary said: That was fun.
Kirk said: Well, well, well. You're all having such a good time, I think I'll join you. Is that all right?
Mary said: Please do.
Kirk said: I'll have a dish, too.
Chapel said: Oh, of course.
Kirk said: A little one. A very small one. It's better than Triacus, isn't it?
Don said: That dirty old planet?
Ray said: What's so good about that place?
Steve said: Yeah?
Mary said: You weren't there very long. You don't know.
Kirk said: I don't think your parents liked it very much either.
Tommy said: Yes, they did.
Steve said: Yeah. Mine sure did.
Don said: Parents like stupid things.
Chapel said: Oh, I don't know about that. Parents like children.
Mary said: Ha. That's what you think.
Kirk said: I'm sure your parents loved you. That's why they took you with them to Triacus. So they wouldn't be so far away from you for such a long time. That would make them very unhappy and miss you. I'm sure that you would miss them, too.
There's a silence, then 
Tommy said: Busy, busy.
All said: Busy. Busy. Busy! Busy!
The running around starts again.
Don said: Guess what we are.
Chapel said: I know. A swarm of bees.
Mary said: Watch out. Watch out. I'll sting you.
She rushes at Kirk and he picks her up.
Kirk said: Now wait a minute.
Tommy said: Can we have some more ice cream, please?
Kirk said: No, I don't think so. It'll spoil your dinner.
Tommy said: See what I told you? They all say it.
Mary said: Yeah.
Kirk said: All right, children, you've had a busy day. I think you could use some rest. Nurse Chapel will see you to your quarters.
Chapel said: Very good idea, Captain.
Mary said: Aw, do we have to?
Chapel ushers the little ones out.
Kirk said: Tommy, Just a moment. I'd like to ask you a question. Come and sit down. Tommy, will you tell me what you saw?
Tommy said: Saw where?
Kirk said: In the cave, on the planet. On Triacus.
Tommy said: You were there.
Kirk said: Did you see your father today?
Tommy said: I saw him.
Kirk said: Did he seem upset?
Tommy said: Yeah, he was very upset.
Kirk said: What about?
Tommy said: I didn't ask him.
Kirk said: What was going on that would have upset him?
Tommy said: How should I know? He was always upset, just like you, Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: I'm not upset with you, Tommy, or your friends. We invited you aboard the Enterprise. Why would I do that if I didn't like you?
Tommy said: You have your reasons.
Kirk said: Aren't you unhappy about leaving Triacus?
Tommy said: That place? That's for adults.
Kirk said: Aren't you upset about leaving your parents?
Tommy said: My parents? They love it down there. Always busy. (he nearly chokes up) They're happy. Can I go now? I'm tired too, you know.
Kirk said: Yes, certainly. I'll take you.
Tommy said: I know the way.
Tommy leaves.
Kirk said: Kirk to security. Post a guard on the children. They're to be kept under constant watch.
Scene: Children's quarters.
The children are in a circle, chanting.
All said: Hail, hail, fire and snow. Call the angel, we will go. Far away, for to see, friendly Angel come to me. Hail, hail, fire and snow. Call the angel, we will go. Far away, for to see, friendly Angel come to me. Hail, hail
a green figure of a large man shimmers into view
Gorgon said: (echoy voice) You have done very well, my friends. You have done what must be done. You have come aboard the Enterprise. Now our destination is a Federation settlement. Captain Kirk will undoubtedly choose a closer station. Do not let that deter you. Marcos Twelve has millions of people on it. Nearly a million will join us as our friends. The rest will be our enemies. Together with our other friends who will join us, we will defeat our enemies as we defeated them on Triacus. A million friends on Marcos will make us invincible. No one will tell us where to go, when to sleep, where to eat. The universe will be mine to command, yours to play in. To accomplish this great mission, we must first control the Enterprise. To control the ship, we first must control the crew. You know how to do that. That is your next task. And as you believe, so shall you do, so shall you do. As you believe, so shall you do, so shall you do. As you believe, so shall you do, so shall you do.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Maintaining standard orbit, Captain.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura, any report from the planet security team?
Uhura said: Everything is quiet, sir.
Spock said: (enters) Captain, I have extracted the salient portion of Professor Starnes' tapes.
Kirk said: Good.
Spock said: Among the technical facts he gathered, Professor Starnes also offered some rather unscientific hypotheses.
Kirk said: Let's see them.
Starnes said: Log date 5025.3. Ever since our arrival on Triacus, I've felt a certain growing feeling of uneasiness. At first I attributed it to the usual case of nerves associated with any new project. However, I've found that the rest of my associates are also bothered by these anxieties. The only ones not affected are the children Bless them, they find the whole thing an exciting adventure. Ah, to be young again.
Kirk said: Let's see some more of these unscientific hypotheses, Mister Spock.
Starnes said: (tense) 5032.4. The feeling of anxiety we've all been experiencing is growing worse.
Spock said: There is another portion, Captain, which I believe you'll find particularly interesting.
Starnes said: 5038.3. Professor Wilkins finished his excavation today. Although whatever civilisation that might have been here was destroyed by some natural catastrophe, it would appear that one of the race took refuge in the cave. (Tommy enters the Bridge) And, for our efforts, we are becoming only more apprehensive. (Tommy clenches his fist) As if some unseen force were influencing us.
The picture on the monitor breaks up and ends.
Kirk said: What happened?
Spock said: Unknown.
Kirk said: I didn't see you come in, Tommy.
Tommy said: Captain, after we leave here, can you take us to Marcos Twelve?
Kirk said: No. We'll probably take you to a Federation Starbase.
Tommy said: But I have relatives on Marcos Twelve.
Kirk said: I'm sorry, Tommy. Marcos Twelve is not within our patrol area. Mister Spock, we'll pursue this in my quarters.
Tommy said: Captain, can I stay here and watch? I'll be very quiet.
Kirk said: All right, Tommy. Lieutenant, have Doctor McCoy report to my quarters for a brief conference. Mister Leslie?
Kirk and Spock leave.
Sulu said: Hi there.
Tommy said: Hi.
Tommy does the fist clenching thing, Sulu blinks and presses some buttons and turns the navigation dial. Enterprise leaves orbit. Mary arrives with her security guard.
Tommy said: What is that?
Sulu said: (blissfully unaware of reality) The planet Triacus.
Tommy said: Will we see that all the time we stay here?
Chekov said: Yes, we will. All the time we're here.
Mary said: He sees Triacus on the screen.
Tommy said: He thinks he sees it.
Uhura said: (seeing reality) Mister Sulu, the screen. We're out of orbit.
Tommy influences her too. The planet is back.
Mary said: Will we reach Marcos Twelve soon?
Tommy said: Very soon.
Scene: Engineering.
Don influences the crew, then Scott walks in.
Scott said: When did we change course?
Man said: We haven't changed course.
Scott said: What do you mean, we haven't changed course? Look at your bridge control monitor.
Man said: We're still in orbit, sir.
Scott said: Have you gone completely blind? That's not orbiting position.
Man said: Don't touch the controls, sir.
Scott said: What the devil do you think you're doing?
Man said: We must remain in this orbit till the bridge orders a change.
Scott said: You blind fool! Can't you see in front of you? We're not in orbit.
Man said: I will not disobey an order from the bridge.
Scott said: You are disobeying an order from the bridge. Now step aside.
Man said: You're losing control of yourself.
Scott said: Not yet.
Scott throws the Engineer aside to get to the controls, but the other one present grabs him. Finally the first man knocks Scott out.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Starnes said: I'm being influenced to do things that do not make sense. I even went so far as to call Starfleet Command to request a spaceship to be used as a transport. It was only when I couldn't tell them what I wanted to transport that I began to realise that my mind was being directed. I decided to send a dispatch to Starfleet, warning them. God forgive us. Must destroy ourselves! Alien upon us. The enemy from within. The enemy!
Spock said: He never completed the entry, and the dispatch was never sent. Except for scenes of family life, games and picnics with the children, that is the complete record. Whatever overwhelmed them must have done so with incredible speed. Otherwise, the professor would have provided details of the experience. He was an excellent scientist and tireless in his pursuit of the truth.
Kirk said: That could be what destroyed him.
Spock said: Possible, Captain. Evil does seek to maintain power by suppressing the truth.
Mccoy said: Or by misleading the innocent.
Kirk said: Misleading the innocent? I wonder.
Mccoy said: Do you mean the children may be involved?
Kirk said: Yes, Doctor. Spock what do we know about the race that lived here?
Spock said: According to the legend, Triacus was the seat of a band of marauders who made constant war throughout the system of Epsilon Indi. After many centuries, the destroyers were themselves destroyed by those they had preyed upon.
Kirk said: Is that the end of it?
Spock said: No, like so many legends, this one too has a frightening ending. It warns that the evil is awaiting a catalyst to set it again into motion and send it marauding across the galaxy.
Kirk said: Is it possible that the evil found the catalyst?
Spock said: I was speaking of a legend, Captain.
Kirk said: But most legends have their basis in fact, Spock.
Mccoy said: I think I read you, Jim, but as medical officer I must warn you that unless the normal grief is tapped and released from these children, you are treading dangerously.
Kirk said: I understand your diagnosis, Doctor, and I'll respect it. But not to the exclusion and safety of the Enterprise. Thank you.
McCoy leaves.
Kirk said: Spock, what other expeditions have visited Triacus?
Spock said: According to Federation records, this is the first.
Kirk said: What was it Professor Starnes said about the unseen force?
Spock said: He said an unseen force was influencing him, that he recognised it, was beginning to fight it and cancelled his request for a ship.
Kirk said: A ship. Yes, a ship for Triacus. But why? By whom? (into comm.) Security detachment. Ready for relief duty on Triacus. Assemble in the transporter room immediately. I'll have some questions for that planet detachment as soon as they're beamed up. I think it's about time we found out whether Professor Starnes' enemy within is on the planet below or here onboard ship with us. Come on.
Scene: Transporter room.
Two security men are already on the transporter pads.
Kirk said: Your tour of duty will last one hour. Be prepared with your communicators at all times to report any alien beings. Don't wait to investigate.
Beam down the guards.
The two men disappear.
Kirk said: Beam up the security detachment from Triacus. (no one appears) Spock? What's wrong?
Spock said: I am unable to lock on to the proper co-ordinates.
Kirk said: Why not?
Spock said: It appears we are no longer orbiting Triacus.
Kirk said: That's impossible. If we're not orbiting Triacus, then the men I beamed down are dead.
Spock said: Captain, we are no longer orbiting Triacus.
Kirk said: Activate the bridge monitor screen.
The starfield appears on the wall monitor.
Kirk said: Captain to Bridge.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu, we're not orbiting Triacus.
Sulu said: With all respects, Captain, you're wrong. I have Triacus on my screen now.
And all five children standing near him.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: You're off course. I'm coming right up.
Scene: Bridge.
The children are doing their chant as Kirk and Spock rush onto the bridge.
All said: Hail, hail, fire and snow. Call the angel, we will go. Far away, far to see, friendly Angel come to me.
Kirk said: Sulu!
All said: Fire and snow. Call the angel, we will go. Far away, far to see, friendly Angel come to me.
Gorgon said: Friends we have reached a moment of crisis. The enemy have discovered our operation, but they are too late. They no longer control the ship. We do. We shall prevail. They will take us any place we desire. Go back to your stations. Maintain your controls. If resistance mounts, call upon their beast. Their beast will serve us well. The fear in each one of them is the beast which will consume him. Remember how it was on Triacus. If they resist, so shall it be on the Enterprise. If you need me, call and I will appear. Our new goal is Marcos Twelve. It is our new beginning. We must not falter.
The appararition vanishes.
Tommy said: Go to your stations. Mary, you remain here with me.
Kirk said: Helmsman, disregard what you see on the screen, what you think you see on the screen. Set a course for Starbase Four.
Tommy does the fist thing and Sulu sees swords on the viewscreen.
Kirk said: Helmsman, did you hear me?
Sulu said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura, contact Starbase Four. Tell them we're bringing the children there. Tell Starfleet Command I suspect them of being alien in nature, and I want a thorough investigation made upon our arrival.
Uhura said: Aye, aye, sir.
For some strange reason there is a mirror in front of her, and Tommy changes what she can see in it.
Kirk said: Lieutenant, what are you staring at?
Uhura said: I see my death. A long death. Disease and pain. I see my death.
Kirk said: Lieutenant, there's nothing there.
Uhura said: Oh, God. Captain, don't let it be.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, you make the call to Starfleet. Mister Sulu, I ordered you to change course. Mister Sulu
Sulu said: Captain, stay away from the controls! If you touch them, we'll be destroyed.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu, there's nothing there.
Spock said: Captain, why are we bothering Starfleet?
Kirk said: That was an order, Spock.
Spock said: This bridge is under complete control.
Kirk said: Complete?
Spock said: There is no need.
Kirk said: Take a look around you.
Spock tries to reach for his controls, but Tommy intervenes.
Spock said: I cannot obey your order, Captain.
A vain communications officer who cannot ignore a reflection, a helmsman who thinks he is flying the ship through a tunnel of swords... Kirk goes to the security guard.
Kirk said: Take Mister Sulu to his quarters. He is relieved of duty.
But Tommy stops the guard, and everyone else, from hearing what the captain is saying. It sounds total gibberish. Only Spock manages to clear his mind.
Kirk said: Confine them to quarters. Did you hear me? Did you hear me?
Tommy summons Kirk's beast to haunt him. Loss of confidence and control. Fear of indecision.
Spock said: Captain, we must get off this bridge.
Kirk said: Yes, we must. I'm losing command. I'm losing my ability to command. I'm losing the Enterprise.
Scene: Turbolift.
Kirk said: I'm losing command. I'm losing the Enterprise. The ship is sailing on and on. I'm alone. Alone. Alone. I'm losing command.
Spock said: Captain.
Kirk said: I've lost command. I've lost the Enterprise.
Spock said: Jim.
Kirk said: I've got command. I've got command. I've got command.
Spock said: Correct, Captain.
Scene: Corridor.
Spock said: Where to, Captain?
Kirk said: Auxiliary control, my Vulcan friend. This ship is off course.
Scene: Auxiliary control.
Kirk said: Scotty. I want you to override the bridge navigation system and plot a course for Starbase Four.
Scott said: I can't do that, sir.
Kirk said: Why not?
Scott said: These are very sensitive instruments. I will not have you upset their delicate balance. We would all be lost, forever lost. (Spock sees Don) Go away now. Go away or we'll kill you.
Kirk said: Scotty, listen to me. The Enterprise has been invaded by alien beings. Its destination is Marcos. If we take it there, millions will die the way they died at Triacus.
Kirk tries to jump the engineer at the controls, but he and Spock are forced away. They retreat.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: No, I'm all right, Spock. My beast is finished. It won't return.
Spock said: Captain, so long as the children are present, there is danger. They are the carriers.
Kirk said: Spock, they're not the alien beings. They're children being misled.
Spock said: They are followers. Without followers, evil cannot spread.
Kirk said: They're children.
Spock said: Captain, the four hundred and thirty men and women on board the Enterprise and the ship itself are endangered by these children.
Kirk said: They don't understand the evil that they're doing.
Spock said: Perhaps that is true, but the evil that is within them is spreading fast, and unless we can find a way to remove it
Kirk said: We'll have to kill them.
Tommy and Chekov arrive with two guards.
Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: What is it, Ensign?
Chekov said: I have been instructed to place you and Mister Spock under arrest.
Kirk said: By whose order?
Chekov said: Starfleet Command, sir.
Kirk said: Where did you hear this order, Ensign? Now, listen to me. This order is false. I want you and your men to return to their stations.
Chekov said: I'm sorry, but I must insist you and Mister Spock come with me to the detention section.
Kirk said: Ensign, listen to me.
Chekov said: (drawing his phaser) Do not force me to kill you, sir. I will if I have to. Will you come peacefully, Captain?
Kirk said: Ensign, listen to me. This is a false order, Ensign.
Chekov said: I have never disobeyed an order, Captain. You know I have never
Kirk said: I know that, Ensign. You have never disobeyed an order, but an alien being is aboard this ship.
Chekov said: I will not disobey now! I cannot disobey!
Kirk said: Ensign, listen to me. You will disobey this order!
Starfleet Command supersedes your order, sir!
Spock and Kirk jump them. Tommy's fist is working overtime to try and control the situation, but Kirk and Spock win the fight.
Kirk said: Enough. Take these men to detention then join me on the bridge.
Scene: Bridge.
Tommy is in the Captain's chair, grinning.
Kirk said: The Enterprise will never reach Marcos Twelve. We will not be landing there.
Tommy said: The crew will take us. The crew believes.
Kirk said: The crew does not understand. When we make them understand as I understand, they won't take you to Marcos.
Mary said: They will! They will!
Tommy said: We are going to Marcos! We are going to follow our friend!
Kirk said: Your friend? Where is your friend? Where is that stowaway? Why does he hide?
Mary said: He will come if we call him.
Tommy said: But we won't. We don't need him. We're not afraid of you.
Kirk said: Good. I'm glad you're not afraid of me. (Takes his seat) But your leader is afraid. What's he afraid of?
Mary said: He's not afraid of anybody.
Tommy said: He's not afraid of anything.
Kirk said: He's afraid to be seen. And when the crew sees and hears him, they'll understand that he is not their friend, and they won't follow him.
Tommy said: He is our friend.
Kirk said: Then let him show himself. Bring him out! Let him prove to me that he is my friend and I'll follow him to Marcos Twelve and to the ends of the universe!
Tommy said: No!
Spock enters the bridge.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, playback the chant the children sang to summon up the Gorgan.
All said: Hail, hail, fire and snow. Call the angel, we will go. Far away, for to see, friendly Angel come to me. Hail, hail, fire and snow. Call the angel, we will go. (The other children enter the bridge.) Far away, for to see, friendly Angel come to me.
Kirk said: The time has come to see the world as it is. Come on.
Gorgan appears.
Gorgan said: Who has summoned me?
Kirk said: I did, Gorgan. My beast is gone. It lost its power in the light of reality. I command again, and I ordered you here.
Gorgan said: No, Captain. I command here. My followers are strong and faithful and obedient. That's why we take what is ours wherever we go.
Spock said: You take from those who do not know you.
Kirk said: And we know you.
Gorgan said: Then you know I must win, Captain.
Kirk said: Not if we join together to fight you.
Gorgon said: Foolish. You will be destroyed. I would ask you to join me, but you are gentle, and that is a grave weakness.
Kirk said: We're also very strong.
Gorgan said: Ah, but your strength is cancelled by your gentleness. You are full of goodness. Such as you cannot be changed. You are like the parents. You must be eliminated.
Kirk said: Children, I have pictures of some of you on Triacus. I'd like to show them to you. Would you like to see them? Mister Spock, the pictures.
Gorgan said: I forbid it.
Spock said: Why should you fear it?
Gorgan said: I fear nothing.
Kirk said: So we were told. Mister Spock, the pictures. The children are waiting.
Film of the children playing with their parents appears on Spock's overhead monitor. They smile as they watch themselves having fun. Then they see their parents lying dead, and the smiles are gone.
Gorgan said: They would not help transport us. They were against us. They had to be eliminated.
Spock said: Tommy's father would have destroyed you, but he recognised you too late.
Gorgan said: You are also too late. The kind ones always are.
Kirk said: Not always, Gorgan. Not this time. You can't hide from them. They see you as we see you. They know what you are. Even the children learn.
Gorgan said: You are my future generals. Together we can raise armies of followers. Go to your posts! The first great victories are upon us. You will see. We have millions of friends on Marcos Twelve. We shall exterminate all who oppose us! Our purity of purpose cannot be contaminated by those who disagree, who will not co-operate, who do not understand. They must be annihilated.
But now the children are crying.
Kirk said: Don't be afraid. Look at him. Without you children, he's nothing. The evil remains within him.
Gorgan becomes ugly.
Gorgan said: I command you! I command you! To your posts! Carry out your duties, or I will destroy you! You will be swept aside to make way for the strong.
Kirk said: Look how ugly he really is. Look at him and don't be afraid.
Gorgan said: Death. Death to you all. Death to you all. Death to you all. Death to you all.
Gorgon fades away. Sulu's swords vanish. McCoy enters.
Kirk said: It's all right.
Mccoy said: They're crying, Jim. I don't know how it happened, but it's good to see.
Kirk said: It's all right, Mary. It's all right. It's all right, isn't it, Doctor?
Mccoy said: Yes. It's all right. We can help them now.
Sulu said: Marcos Twelve dead ahead, sir.
Kirk said: Reverse course, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Aye, sir.
McCoy leads the children off the bridge.
Sulu said: Course reversed, Captain.
Kirk said: Set course for Starbase Four, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Yes, sir.