Wink Of An Eye
Stardate: 5710.5
Original Airdate: 29 Nov, 1968
Ship's log, stardate 5710.5. Lieutenant Commander Scott reporting. While exploring an outer quadrant of the galaxy, the Enterprise received distress calls from an apparently uninhabited, incredibly beautiful city on the planet of Scalos. Captain Kirk and a landing party have beamed down to investigate.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise.
Scene: Scalos.
A blue background of extraordinary architecture, and a humanoid statue.
Kirk said: What do your sensors read?
Scott said: They register something, sir, but I'm blessed if I can figure out what it is.
Kirk said: Specify.
Scott said: I can't get a fix on it. Sensors don't pinpoint a location. We may have a malfunction. I'm about to check circuits, sir.
Kirk said: You do that. Lieutenant Uhura, does the location of the distress call correspond with this area
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Exactly?
Uhura said: Yes, sir. I am still receiving visual contact. I can see them, but I can't see you.
The viewscreen has five people standing in an area with the same architecture behind them.
Kirk said: Check co-ordinates. Is it the same area?
Uhura said: Co-ordinates correspond, Captain.
Scene: Scalos.
Kirk said: Well, apart from the landing party, there's no one here. There are no Scalosians.
Uhura said: The distress call is very strong, Captain. They are pleading for immediate assistance.
Kirk said: Check circuits for malfunctions. Kirk out.
Mccoy said: It must be a malfunction. This is a barren world. There's hardly any vegetation, no apparent animal life.
Kirk said: When we've run analysis, we should have some explanation. (waves away a buzz) But there is an insect life.
Mccoy said: My tricorder doesn't register it.
Kirk said: It registers in my ears. Nothing, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Evidently a civilisation of high order, rating number seven on the industrial scale. Humanoid in appearance, according to the paintings. An abundance of literature, which I shall have translated and processed. Certain structures hold evidence of recent occupancy while others are apparently long abandoned.
Kirk said: No sign of present life?
Spock said: Instrument readings indicate life-form, but of a highly unusual and intermittent nature. They have no discernible form or location. A most puzzling phenomenon, Captain. I shall have to study it further.
Kirk said: Something was here. We saw them on the screen. Lieutenant Uhura is still getting a distress call. What happened?
Spock said: Unknown at present, Captain.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, I want you to run a survey, a complete survey of the planet using all ship's available instruments.
McCoy turns to hear a buzz then his assistant disappears.
Mccoy said: Compton!
Kirk said: What happened?
MCCOY; I was looking at him. I was looking right at him, and he. And he just wasn't there!
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura, start a replay of the distress call. Scotty, are the transporter controls functioning now?
Scott said: Aye, sir. Is Mister Spock still down there?
Kirk said: No, he's in Sickbay. Doctor McCoy is running a check on the landing party. What is it, Lieutenant?
Uhura said: Malfunction, sir.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu, I would like
Uhura said: Captain. It corrected itself.
Sulu said: Captain, there's some trouble on the hangar deck. The controls are frozen.
Kirk said: Have repair crews been assigned?
Sulu said: Yes, sir.
Uhura said: The tape is ready, sir.
Kirk said: Play it.
Spock enters as the viewscreen displays Scalos and that statue.
Rael said: To any and all space travellers passing within range of the planet Scalos, I send you an urgent appeal for help. My comrades and I are the last surviving members of what was once a thriving civilisation. Those of us who are left have taken shelter in this area. We have no explanation for what has been happening to us. Our number is now five. We were once a nation of nine hundred thousand.
Kirk said: Freeze it.
Spock said: It is logical to assume that this distress call was pre-recorded. What we received was evidently a delayed taped message.
Uhura said: That would explain our continuing to receive it while our sensors only picked up the landing party, sir.
Kirk said: The fact remains, when we beamed down there we couldn't find these people. They were there, now they're not. Nor is Crewman Compton.
Spock said: It would seem that some force or agent only partially discernible to our instruments may have been responsible.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu, I want the ship on standby alert while we continue the investigation.
Sulu said: Sir, now I have readings that deflectors are inoperative. The controls are frozen.
Kirk said: Scotty, assist.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, ever since we beamed up from Scalos, we've had a series of malfunctions. I want an investigation and an explanation.
Mccoy said: McCoy to Captain Kirk. Captain's presence for examination is requested.
Kirk said: Can't it wait, Bones?
Mccoy said: Your orders, Jim. You're the last one.
Kirk said: What do you read so far?
Mccoy said: Can we discuss it here?
Kirk said: On my way. Mister Spock, you have the conn.
Scene: Sickbay.
Kirk said: What is it?
Mccoy said: Tell the captain what you told me.
Chapel said: Something's going on, Captain. Somebody's opened all the medical supply cabinets.
Kirk said: Anything missing?
Chapel said: Just disordered, as though someone had picked up everything and examined it.
Kirk said: Thank you.
Mccoy said: Lie down, Jim.
Kirk said: That fits in with other disturbances. Bones, what did your readings show up on the other men?
Mccoy said: All perfectly normal. Whatever happened to Compton down there apparently had no effect on anyone else.
Kirk said: Any of them report any unusual experience since beaming?
Mccoy said: No. There's no mention of it.
The buzzing sound. Kirk starts to sit up.
Mccoy said: I'm not finished yet.
Kirk said: Hold on. Bones, could something be making me hallucinate?
Mccoy said: What do you mean?
Kirk said: I mean that twice before something touched me, and there was nothing there. And it's just happened again. Could I be imagining it?
Mccoy said: Physically, there's nothing wrong with you.
Kirk said: But am I hallucinating?
Mccoy said: I'd say no.
Kirk said: Then we did beam something aboard. Something has invaded the ship. Kirk to Spock. Come in. Spock, come in.
Spock said: (bad static) Captain, I have a reading from Life Support centre
Kirk said: Spock, I can't hear you. Check your circuits. Is there a malfunction?
Uhura said: Captain, intercom system is breaking down rapidly.
Kirk said: Lieutenant, ship wide order. Use communicators instead of intercom. Issue phasers to all crew members. Spock, repeat.
Spock said: I have a reading from Life Support centre. Alien substances being introduced.
Kirk said: Meet me there on the double.
Scene: Corridor.
Spock hands Kirk a phaser. The two security men running ahead hit a forcefield and fall down.
Kirk said: Spock?
Spock said: It is a force field, Captain, the nature of which I'm not familiar with. I'm getting readings of an alien presence similar to those obtained on the planet's surface, but they seem to have no exact location.
Kirk said: Phasers on stun. Sweep the area.
The corridor goes green as they fire. Then they all walk forward, but the two security men are stopped again by the force field.
Spock said: It would seem, Captain, that they intend to allow only the two of us to enter. I should advise caution.
Scene: Environmental Engineering.
There is a contraption hooked up to Life Support.
Kirk said: What is it?
Spock said: Unknown, Captain. But it is evidently a device of alien origin.
Kirk said: Hooked into the life support. Designed to affect it.
Spock said: Life support is still operating. I would say that the installation is incomplete.
Kirk said: Disconnect it. (Spock gets a shock from it) Destroy it.
Their phasers disappear from their hands, then they are pushed backwards.
Kirk said: That was no force field. Something shoved me back. They're in here. You! What are you doing on my ship? Show yourselves!
Spock said: It seems that we may look at it, Captain, but that is all.
Kirk said: A show of strength.
Spock said: Yes. Evidently they are convinced that we can do nothing to stop them, and they wish to impress upon us what they can do to us.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Have your readings been fed into the computer?
Spock said: Affirmative.
Kirk said: Read out.
Spock said: Computer, analyse and reply. Have we been invaded?
Computer said: Affirmative.
Spock said: Nature and description of enemy forces.
Computer said: Data insufficient.
Spock said: Number of enemy forces.
Computer said: Data insufficient.
Spock said: Purpose of the invasion?
Computer said: Immediate purpose, seizure and control of Federation Star ship Enterprise and crew. Data insufficient for determination of end purpose.
Spock said: Is there a connection between this and Compton's disappearance?
Computer said: Data insufficient.
Spock said: Are we at present capable of resisting?
Computer said: Negative.
Spock said: Your recommendation?
Computer said: If incapable of resistance, negotiate for terms.
Kirk said: We will not negotiate. Do you concur?
Scott said: Aye.
Kirk said: Mister Spock?
Spock said: Your recommendations, Captain?
Kirk said: Yeoman, is that coffee available, or have those circuits been damaged as well? (takes a cup from her tray) My recommendation? Make them take the next step.
Kirk hears that buzzing again. We see his coffee bubble briefly. He takes a drink, grimaces (it is black coffee then everything around him slows down and finally stops.)
Kirk said: Spock?
Deela said: (the woman from the distress call) Captain.
Kirk said: Would you mind explaining (she kisses him) Who are you?
Deela said: Deela. The enemy.
Kirk said: You're the enemy?
Deela said: Yes. You beamed me aboard yourself when you came up. A ridiculously long process, but I've taken care of it.
Kirk said: What have you done with my men?
Deela said: Nothing.
Kirk said: Nothing? Mister Spock? Scotty. This is nothing?
Deela said: There's really nothing wrong with them. They are just as they have always been. It's you who are different.
Kirk said: Lieutenant. Sulu. This is nothing?
Deela said: They cannot hear you, Captain. To their ears, you sound like an insect. That's your description, Captain. Accurate, if unflattering. Really, there is nothing wrong with them.
Kirk said: What have you done?
Deela said: Changed you. So you are like me now. Your crew cannot see you or any of us because of the acceleration. We move in the wink of an eye. Oh, there is a scientific explanation for it, but all that really matters is that you can see me and talk to me, and we can go on from there.
Kirk said: Why?
Deela said: Because I like you. Didn't you guess? Or are you so accustomed to being kissed by invisible women?
She kisses him again, but he doesn't respond.
Kirk said: Deela. Is this why you sabotaged my ship?
Deela said: Oh, but it has not been sabotaged. We we had to make some changes in it to adjust it to us.
Kirk said: You said we?
Deela said: Yes. Of course. My chief scientist and his crew. I am their queen. You are going to be their king. You'll enjoy living on Scalos.
Kirk said: What about my ship? My crew?
Deela said: Oh, in a few of their moments, they will realise that you've vanished. They will look for you, but they will not find you. You're accelerated far beyond their power to see. So they'll go on without you. Don't be so stubborn. You cannot go back to them, ever. Is it so dreadful a prospect?
Kirk said: (draws his phaser) This won't kill you, but the stun effect is not very pleasant.
Deela said: But that won't work. You go ahead and try. Point it right at me.
She sidesteps the slow phaser beam easily.
Deela said: My reactions are much too fast for such a crude weapon. And I am quite good at self-defense, too. This can be set for stun and destroy, too, like yours. (his phaser goes flying) Please, accept what has happened. There is nothing you can do to change it.
Kirk said: If I agree to go with you, will you set this ship to rights? Take out that device in the life-support system?
Deela said: Don't be so silly. You'll feel better about it all in a little while. It always happens this way. They are very upset at first, then it wears off and they, they learn to like it. You will, too.
(Kirk leaves}
Deela said: He's on his way to you. Be gentle with him.
Meanwhile, in our normal time-frame
Uhura said: Captain. Captain Kirk! He's gone!
Spock said: Lieutenant, did you see what happened?
Uhura said: Well, he was sitting there. He'd just drunk his coffee and set his cup down. You see it's still there. And then he vanished.
Spock said: Mister Sulu, do you verify?
Sulu said: That's just what happened. He was there, then all of a sudden he wasn't there.
Scene: Corridor.
Compton said: Captain Kirk, you've made it.
Kirk said: Compton, did they accelerate you?
Compton said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: They hooked something into the life support system. They're in there. We've got to get rid of it.
Compton said: I'm sorry, sir. Entry is forbidden.
Kirk said: By whose order?
Compton said: The commander, sir. You'll have to step back, please.
Kirk said: I'm your commander, Compton. I order you to let me in.
Compton said: I'm sorry, sir. You are no longer.
Kirk said: Who is? Deela? Is that who you're working for?
Compton said: At first I refused, but then after a while I found I couldn't help myself. I met this girl. She's one of them. I've never known anyone like her. She brought me aboard to show them operation of the ship. Bridge controls, life support. She explained that they wanted to know. I didn't understand at first, but I do now. So will you, sir.
Kirk said: All right, Compton.
Kirk turns away, then quickly disarms Compton and enters
Scene: Environmental Engineering.
Two Scalosian males are there.
Rael said: Stun.
Kirk falls gently to the floor. Compton enters and attacks the man with the weapon. He is knocked down for his loyalty.
Rael said: You were ordered to stop him. Why did you disobey?
Compton said: I tried to stop him. You hurt him.
Rael said: He was violent. He had to be subdued.
Compton said: He was my captain.
Ekor said: Cell damage.;
Rael said: (to a young woman) Another will be secured for you.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: I'm getting a trace reading similar to that on the planet. Mister Sulu, did you drink your coffee?
Sulu said: Yes.
Spock said: Did anyone else?
Scott said: I had some.
Spock said: May I?
Scott said: Was it the coffee? Are we going to go too, just like the captain?
Spock said: I cannot give you that answer until these have been analysed.
Scott said: By that time it'll be too late.
Spock said: I suggest that we recall the captain's words, Make them take the next step. It would seem they have taken it. And we must determine effective countermeasures. Mister Scott, you have the conn. I shall be in the medical lab.
Scene: Environmental Engineering.
Deela is kneeling next to the still-unconscious Kirk.
Deela said: I hate what happens to them when they're damaged. You're going to have to learn to control your temper, Rael. I do not want that to happen to this one. If they are so stubborn a species, perhaps they will last longer.
Rael said: It may be.
Deela said: I hope so. They all go so soon. I want to keep this one a long time. He's pretty.
Rael said: He is inferior, Deela.
Deela said: Oh? I don't think so.
Rael said: You cannot allow yourself to feel an attachment to such.
Deela said: I can allow myself anything I want. Oh, Rael, don't be like that. Am I jealous of what you do?
Rael said: I do my duty.
Deela said: So do I. And sometimes I allow myself to enjoy it.
Kirk wakes up.
Deela said: Hello.
Kirk said: What is that device doing on my ship?
Rael said: Deela will explain it.
Deela said: I will tell you anything you want to know, and you'll approve of it.
Kirk said: Approve of it? We're your prisoners.
Deela said: Hardly. You're free to go anywhere you want to.
Rael said: Go ahead, Captain. It is not yet completely linked to your support system, but it is in operating order. Study it if you wish. I suggest that you do not touch it.
Kirk touches the device briefly, then clamps both hands firmly onto it in an act of defiance. Deela pulls them off.
Deela said: He told you not to touch it. Look at your hands. They're almost frozen, aren't they? It will pass.
Rael said: The unit has its own self-defence mechanism, as you see. You should've heeded me.
Kirk sees Compton on the floor. The young man now looks very old.
Rael said: In your struggle with Compton, some of his cells were damaged. Those newly accelerated to our level are sensitive to cell damage. They age rapidly and die.
Kirk said: He was so young.
Rael said: Was.
Kirk said: This is what you have planned for us?
Deela said: We all die, even on Scalos.
Kirk leaves.
Deela said: Why did you lie to him? He did not damage that one, you did.
Rael said: Perhaps he will be less violent now.
Deela said: I see no reason to make him feel any worse than he has to.
Rael said: Why do you care what he feels?
Deela said: Rael, he's not one of us. He's temporary. (getting a message via her collar device) He's gone to the medical laboratory. He's trying to communicate with the Vulcan. His species is capable of much affection.
Rael said: I have noted that.
Deela said: I wonder if they will demonstrate it to us. Oh, Rael, stop sulking. Accept it. We've had to accept it all our lives. Don't make it worse.
Rael kisses Deela
Deela said: Go back to work.
Scene: Medical Lab.
In fast time. Kirk is using a computer console whilst McCoy, Chapel and Spock are motionless at another bench, examining test results.
Kirk said: Kirk to Spock, I have fed all the ascertainable facts into the computer banks.
Deela enters.
Deela said: Go ahead. You won't accomplish anything, but it may be historically valuable.
Kirk said: Hyperacceleration is the key. I have counted only five of them aboard, but they have taken over the ship, and we are under their control due to this acceleration. They are able to speed others up to their level, as they did Compton and me. Presumably, this is enslavement? Those so treated exist at this accelerated level, becoming docile eventually. But when
Deela said: Damaged.
Kirk said: Damaged, they age incredibly fast, as though accelerated living
Deela said: Burns them out.
Kirk said: Burns them out. Compton was burned out. The device attached to the life-support system produces an extreme, numbing cold. It is my belief that they are turning the Enterprise into a gigantic deep-freeze for purposes only the Scalosians know.
Deela said: Quite correct.
Kirk said: The unit has a protective shield which does not allow any physical contact. I don't know how to destroy it, but its destruction is imperative.
Deela said: The unit will be activated. By the time they hear this, it will be too late. You have remarkable reasoning powers, Captain. You were quite right in almost every assumption.
Kirk said: Why are you doing this?
Deela said: Do you really want to know? In a little while it won't matter to you at all. You'll be quite happy about it, Just as Compton was.
Kirk said: I really want to know.
Deela said: Oh, dear. You are so stubborn. It should be obvious to you that we're doing it because we have to. A long time ago, it is in our history, we used to be like you. Then our country was almost destroyed by volcanic eruptions. The water was polluted. Radiation was released. That changed us. It accelerated us. The children died. Most of the women found they could not have more. All of our men had become sterile. So we had to mate outside our own people. Whenever a spaceship came by, we'd send our calls for help. But accelerating them to our level burned them out. Don't you see, Captain? Do I have to go into every detail? We are going to take you down with us. Perhaps one or two others of your crew. We have to. We'll be kind to you. I wouldn't hurt you, certainly. I do like you.
Kirk said: What about the rest of my crew?
Deela said: They'll remain here in suspended animation. It will do them no harm. We are saving them for when we need them in the future. You will not last forever. You know that, Captain. Captain, we have the right to survive.
Kirk said: Not by killing others.
Deela said: You were doing exactly the same thing. You came charging into that life-support room the minute you knew there was trouble. You would have killed every one my people if you could have.
Kirk said: You invaded my ship. You threaten my crew.
Deela said: There is no difference.
Kirk said: There is a difference! Your trouble is in you.
Deela said: We did not ask for it. We are not to blame. We are handling it the only way we know how. The way our parents and their parents before them.
Kirk said: Did they solve anything? Have you tried any other way? Deela, have your scientists disconnect, destroy that unit. I promise you, we'll use every skill we have to help you. We'll move you to another planet. We'll call on the most brilliant minds in our Federation to help. We'll do it
Deela said: We have tried other ways. We've tried to make the transition to your level. Some of us, that is. Those who made the attempt died. We are trapped, Captain, Just as you are trapped now. I'm sorry for what's going to happen to you, but I cannot change it. You cannot change me.
Rael said: Go to the transporter room, Deela. Signal me when you're there and beam down.
Deela said: With the captain?
Rael said: Yes. I'll activate our unit and follow you. I'm setting it to allow all of us time to get off the ship. Please don't delay.
Meanwhile, Kirk slips his computer tape into the machine Spock is working at. Then he slips out.
Deela said: Just what makes you think I would do that? The captain's gone.
Scene: Environmental Engineering.
Rael said: Go after him, Deela.
Scene: Medical Lab.
in real time
Mccoy said: There's no question about it, Spock. I want you to take a look at this. The same substance is in the captain's coffee as in the Scalosian water, and there's no trace of it in any other cups.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk removed a vital component from the control console before Deela enters. She draws her weapon.
Deela said: Why did you run?
Kirk said: I panicked.
Deela said: I don't believe that.
Kirk said: I'd like to leave before he activates the suspended animation device.
Deela said: (into her comm. unit) We're in the transporter room. You can activate.
Rael said: Beam him down at once.
Deela said: Captain.
Kirk stands on the transporter pad. Deela activates the controls but nothing happens.
Deela said: What have you done to the transporter, Captain?
Kirk said: It was working before. Try it again.
Deela said: (into her comm. unit) The transporter isn't working.
Scene: Environmental Engineering.
Rael said: What'd he do to it?
Deela said: Nothing. He didn't have time.
Scene: Transporter room.
Deela said: It must be a, what do you call it? A malfunction. You'd better not activate the unit yet. What would you say it is, Captain?
Kirk said: The technicians reported a loss of power. That must be it.
Deela said: The captain says his technicians
Rael said: I heard him. You expect me to believe him?
Deela said: I expect you to check into all possible causes. If I had a suspicious nature, Captain, I would say that you sabotaged the transporter to buy time.
Kirk said: Yes, of course.
Deela said: I'm glad we're both innocents. I despise devious people, don't you?
Kirk said: I believe in honest relationships myself.
Scene: Medical lab.
Spock said: Nurse, programme the information and determine whether we can find counteragents. (there's a buzz) Doctor, did you just
Mccoy said: I've been hearing that whine ever since we beamed down to Scalos.
Spock said: I know what it is. We brought it with us from Scalos. If you'll excuse me, I shall be on the bridge.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Deela said: Your quarters are quite like you, Captain. Austere and efficient, and in their own way, handsome.
Kirk said: A room should reflect its occupant.
Deela said: Absolutely. May I freshen up? All this rushing about has left me windblown. I'm glad to see you allow yourself some comforts. Are you married, Captain? No family? No attachments? I know. You're married to your career, and you never look at another woman.
Kirk said: Well, if she's pretty enough, I'll look.
Deela said: I wondered when you'd say something nice to me. Am I more presentable now?
Kirk said: A bit.
Deela said: It was quite delightful kissing you when you couldn't see me. But now
Kirk said: But now.
He kisses her, then takes her hands but she dodges away. He was trying to get the weapon from her sleeve.
Deela said: No. I wouldn't allow you to take that no matter how much we trust each other. But I would've been disappointed if you hadn't tried.
Kirk said: Was I too crude?
Deela said: Just don't try it again. You're far too vulnerable to skin damage. All I have to do is scratch you.
Kirk said: Yes. I know.
Deela said: The difference between us is that you will come around to our way of thinking sooner or later. But it's better sooner than later.
Another kiss.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Lieutenant, will you replay the Scalosian distress call on my viewer?
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Rael said: To any and all space travellers passing within range of the planet Scalos, I send you an urgent appeal for help. My comrades and I are the last surviving members of what was once a thriving civilisation.
Mccoy said: Compton!
Kirk said: What happened?
Mccoy said: I was looking at him. I was looking right at him, and then he just wasn't there
Rael said: Those of us who are left have taken shelter in this area. We have no explanation for what's happening to us. (Spock slows down the playback, then speeds it up) Those of us who are left have taken shelter in this area. We have no explanation for what's happening to us. Nation of nine hundred thousand. City alone holding one hundred thirteen thousand. On which existed several culturally enlightened Indigenous population
Finally it is speeded up to the familiar buzz or whine the crew have been hearing.
Kirk said: There is an insect life.
Mccoy said: My tricorder doesn't register it.
Kirk said: My ears register it.
Mccoy said: This is a barren world. Limited vegetation, no apparent animal life.
Scene: Medical lab.
McCoy discovers there is already a computer tape in the machine slot. He plays it and just hears that whine.
Mccoy said: McCoy to Spock.
Spock said: Spock here.
Mccoy said: I've found a tape in the computer down here, and when I try to read it, all I get is a whine.
Spock said: Bring it to the bridge at once, Doctor.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: This device attached to the life-support system produces an extreme, numbing cold. It is my belief that they are turning the Enterprise into a gigantic deep-freeze. The unit has protective shield which does not allow any physical contact. I don't know how to destroy it, but its destruction is imperative.
Deela said: The unit will be activated. By the time they hear this, it will be too late.
Spock said: Lieutenant Uhura, notify the rest of the crew.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Scott said: Can we use phasers to cut through that wall, bypass the force field and get at that unit?
Spock said: Mister Scott, we cannot cope with them on our level.
Scott said: Can we find some way of coping with them on theirs?
Spock said: That is a very logical suggestion. Stand by in the transporter room.
Scene: Transporter room.
Scott is in the doorway of the room, as the Scalosians try to fix the transporter.
Ekor said: There's nothing wrong elsewhere, sir. Sufficient energy for beaming down.
Rael said: This is the only damage? Go get the others and bring them up here. (into comm.) Deela. Deela? Deela!
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Kirk is putting on his boots as Deela combs her hair. Draw your own conclusions. Rael runs in as the couple indulge in another kiss.
Deela said: Rael!
Rael takes a swing at Kirk.
Deela said: Rael, stop.
Kirk uses a chair as a shield, then Deela shoots Rael, stun level, twice.
Kirk said: No.
Deela said: Now, stop it. Did he damage you, Captain?
Kirk said: No.
Deela said: How very fortunate for you, Rael. Don't you dare do anything like that again. It's contemptible.
Rael said: Then don't torment me. You know how I feel.
Deela said: I don't care what your feelings are. I don't want to know that aspect of it. What I do is necessary, and you have no right to question it. Allow me the dignity of liking the man I select. Is the transporter repaired?
Rael said: No. I have more work to do.
Deela said: Don't you think you'd better do it?
Rael leaves.
Deela said: He loves me. I adored him when I was a child. I suppose I still do. I must say, you behaved better than he did.
Kirk said: Yes, I hope so.
Deela said: What did you say?
Kirk said: I said I hoped I behaved correctly.
Deela said: And nothing bothers you now?
Kirk said: Why are we here?
Deela said: Our leaving was delayed. Don't you remember? You damaged the transporter.
Kirk said: Oh, yes. That was wrong of me.
Deela said: Yes, it certainly was.
Kirk said: But we are going to Scalos?
Deela said: Do you want to?
Kirk said: Oh, yes.
Deela said: What about your crew? Aren't you worried about them?
Kirk said: They'll be all right.
Deela said: Oh.
Kirk said: What's the matter?
Deela said: Nothing. You've completely accepted the situation, haven't you? You even like it.
Kirk said: Am I behaving incorrectly?
Deela said: No! I liked you better before. Stubborn and irritating and independent, like Rael.
Kirk said: Those are undesirable qualities.
Deela said: Maybe that's why I liked you so much. Because you were like him. (into comm.) Rael? You don't have to worry about the captain. He's made the adjustment.
Scene: Medical lab.
Mccoy said: Finished.
Spock said: Yes, it counteracts the substance most effectively.
Mccoy said: Most effectively under laboratory conditions, but the question is will it work in the human body? And the second question is, how do we get it to the captain?
Spock said: By drinking the Scalosian water. (and does so)
Mccoy said: Spock, you don't know what that'll do to you.
Spock said: It is somewhat stimulating. You seem to be moving very slowly, Doctor. Fascinating.
Spock leaves, and we jump back to normal time.
Chapel said: He's gone.
Mccoy said: Just like Compton.
Scene: Transporter room.
The transporter is repaired and the three other Scalosians are beamed down.
Rael said: I've beamed the others down.
Deela said: Is it repaired already?
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Deela said: Why didn't you tell me?
Scene: Transporter room.
Rael said: It would've been an intrusion. Come up when you wish. Signal me when you are ready.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Deela said: Where will you be?
Rael said: In life support. I have to activate our unit.
Deela said: Rael, wait. I'm sorry.
Scene: Transporter room.
Rael said: I know.
Kirk and Deela walk past Scott, still in the doorway.
Deela said: Well, come, Captain. It's time to leave your pretty ship.
Scene: Environmental Engineering.
Rael switches on the refrigerator unit.
Rael said: The unit is activated, Deela. Beam down at once.
Scene: Transporter room.
Deela said: Your crew will be all right. You said so yourself.
Kirk takes her weapon from her sleeve.
Kirk said: I'm sorry.
Kirk leaves.
Deela said: (into comm.) He's broken away. He's armed.
Scene: Environmental Engineering.
RAEL; I'm ready for him.
Kirk meets Spock in the corridor, and they stand either side of the door. Rael fires once, turns, and Kirk fires at him. This time Rael falls slowly to the floor. Then Kirk destroys the unit. Deela arrives and all three enter the room properly.
Deela said: You are very clever, Captain. You tricked me. I should've known that you would never adjust. What shall we expect from you now?
Kirk said: We could put you in suspended animation until we determine what to do with you.
Deela said: Your survival does not depend on that.
Kirk said: No, it doesn't. What do you want us to do with you?
Deela said: Don't make a game of it, Captain. We've lost.
Kirk said: If I sent you to Scalos, you'd undoubtedly play the same trick on the next spaceship that passed by.
Deela said: There won't be any others. You'll warn them. Your federation will quarantine the entire area.
Kirk said: Yes, I suppose it would.
Deela said: And we will die and solve your problem that way. And ours.
Scene: Transporter room.
Scott is a little further into the room.
Deela said: Now, what about your problem, Captain, and your Vulcan friend?
Spock said: If you will devote yourself exclusively to the concerns of Scalos, madam, we shall be pleased to remain and take care of the Enterprise.
Deela said: You could still find life on Scalos very pleasant.
Kirk said: And very brief.
Deela said: It'll be just as brief here. You cannot get back to your own level. No answer, Captain? Do I displease you so much?
Kirk said: Oh, no. I can think of nothing I'd rather do than stay with you. Except staying alive.
Deela joins Rael on the transporter pad.
Kirk said: Energise.
Deela said: Goodbye, Captain.
They are beamed away.
Kirk said: Well, Mister Spock, what have you got?
Spock said: Doctor McCoy and I have synthesised a possible counteragent to the Scalosian water. Regrettably, we did not have the opportunity to test it.
Kirk said: Let's test it. (drinks the contents of a small vial) Nothing's happening.
Spock said: You do seem to be moving very slowly, Captain.
Kirk said: Mister Spock.
Scott said: Captain Kirk, where the blazes did you come from?
Kirk said: Out of the nowhere into the here.
Scott said: And Mister Spock, is he coming too?
Kirk said: Scotty.
Captain's log, Stardate 5710.9. Mister Spock has remained in accelerated time so that he might repair the ship more rapidly.
Sulu said: Somebody's repairing every console on the ship.
Scott said: This panel is being recircuited at incredible speed.
Kirk said: I think we've located Mister Spock. Lieutenant, are your circuits clearing?
Uhura said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Cancel Red Alert, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Open all channels. Captain to crew. Repairs are now being effected by Mister Spock. The ship will resume normal operations almost immediately.
Spock returns to normal time.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, my compliments to your repair work and yourself.
Spock said: Thank you, Captain. I found it an accelerating experience.
Kirk said: Yes. No malfunctions anywhere? (sees the Scalosians on the viewscreen) Lieutenant.
Uhura said: I'm sorry, sir. I touched the tape button accidentally. I'll take it off.
Kirk said: That's no malfunction.
Uhura said: No, sir.
Kirk said: Goodbye Deela.