The Naked Time
Stardate: 1704.2
Original Airdate: 29 Sep, 1966
Captain's Log. Our position, orbiting Psi 2000, an ancient world, now a frozen wasteland, about to rip apart in its death throes. Our mission, pick up a scientific party below, observe the disintegration of the planet.
Scene: Psi 2000 control room.
Spock said: Check out the life-support systems.
Tormolen said: Right, sir. All life systems were off, sir.
Spock said: Someone strangled this woman.
TORMOLEN The other four are back there.
Spock said: Dead?
Tormolen said: Right, sir.
Spock said: Engineer at his post?
TORMOLEN He's frozen there like he didn't care.
Spock said: The rest?
Tormolen said: Well, better look for yourself, Mister Spock. One man was taking a shower fully clothed. (they split up, he takes off his glove to scratch his nose then puts it on the console. Something orange jumps onto his skin. Feeling the cold he puts the glove back on)
Spock said: Be certain we expose ourselves to nothing. Spock here. Do you read, Enterprise?
Kirk said: Kirk, affirmative.
Spock said: All station personnel are dead.
Kirk said: What caused it?
Spock said: Unknown, Captain. It's like nothing we've dealt with before.
Captain's Log: Stardate 1704.2. The science party we were to have picked up has been found dead. Life support systems had been turned off. Station personnel, frozen to death. Conditions highly unusual. Meanwhile, we remain in orbit to complete our mission, close scientific measurement of the break-up of this planet.
Scene: Transporter room.
Spock said: You received my signal, Mister Scott.
Scott said: Yes, sir. Decontaminate.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Captain here.
Scene: Transporter room.
Scott said: Spock and Tormolen aboard, sir.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: We're holding them in the chamber for decontamination.
Kirk said: Better have Medicine look them over too. Tell Mister Spock I'll meet him there in ten minutes. Kirk out.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: You're fine, Joe. Up and out of there. Mister Spock? Your pulse is two hundred and forty two, your blood pressure is practically nonexistent, assuming you call that green stuff in your veins blood.
Spock said: The readings are perfectly normal for me, Doctor, thank you, and as for my anatomy being different from yours, I am delighted. Captain.
Kirk said: How are they?
Mccoy said: They're fine, Jim.
Tormolen said: Terrible, Captain. It was terrible. They were just sitting, like they didn't care. Whatever was happening, they didn't care. I keep wondering
Kirk said: You keep wondering if man was meant to be out here. You keep wondering, you keep signing on. Any guesses, Mister Spock? Any idea of what happened down there?
Spock said: I wish I could say, Captain. The circumstances were quite bizarre, however our record tapes may show us something.
Tormolen said: Six dead. Six people dead.
Kirk said: You'd better get some rest.
Tormolen said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Set up those tapes, Mister Spock. We'll see if the answers are there. (leaves with Spock)
Chapel said: The lab status report, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Oh, thank you, Christine.
Scene: Briefing room.
Spock said: Next tape, please.
Rand said: Spectro-analysis tape, sir.
Spock said: Thank you.
Kirk said: Almost as though they were irrational, drugged. An engineer sitting there, apparently oblivious to everything. A woman strangled. A crewman with a phaser pistol in his hand.
Spock said: He'd used the computer room as if it were an amusement gallery.
Kirk said: And a fully clothed man frozen to death in a shower. If the image wasn't so ugly, it would be laughable. Not even a theory, gentlemen?
Mccoy said: Definitely not drugs or intoxication. The bio-analysis on the tapes prove that conclusively.
Spock said: It could be some form of space madness we've never heard of, but it would have to be caused by something. Our spectro-readings showed no contamination, no unusual elements present.
Scott said: Or at least none your tricorders could register.
Spock said: Instruments register only those things they're designed to register. Space still contains infinite unknowns.
Kirk said: Earth Science needs the closest possible measurement of the breakup of this planet. To do this, we need the Enterprise in a critically tight orbit. Question. Could what happened down there to those people create any unusual danger to this vessel and crew?
Spock said: We will need top efficiency, Captain. It'll be a tricky orbit. When the planet begins to go, there may be drastic changes in gravity, mass, magnetic field.
Kirk said: The purpose of a briefing, gentlemen, is to get me answers based on your abilities and experience. In a critical orbit, there's no time for surprise.
Scott said: Unless you people on the Bridge start taking showers with your clothes on, my engines can pull us out of anything. We'll be warping out of orbit within a half second of getting your command.
Uhura said: Bridge to Captain.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Uhura said: Scanners report sudden four degree shift in planet magnetic field. A change in mass also, sir.
Spock said: It's beginning. Unusually rapid shifts.
Kirk said: On our way, Lieutenant. I'll hold you to that half second, Scotty.
Scene: Rec room.
Sulu said: Foil. It's a rapier. A thin sword.
Riley said: All right. So what do you do with it?
Sulu said: What do you mean, what do you do with it?
Riley said: Self-defence? Mayhem? Shish kebab?
Sulu said: You practice.
Riley said: For what?
Sulu said: Hi, Joey.
Riley said: Last week it was botany he was trying to get me interested in. I was supposed to be collecting leaves, plant specimens.
Sulu said: Your attitude is all wrong. Fencing tones the muscle, sharpens the eye, improves the posture. You tell him, Joey. Explain to him. Hey, Joey. You feeling all right?
Tormolen said: Get off me! You don't rank me and you don't have pointed ears, so just get off my neck!
Sulu said: What's with him?
Tormolen said: Nothing!
Uhura said: Attention. Engine room on standby alert. All duty personnel to the Bridge. Acknowledge.
Sulu said: You sure you're all right now, Joe? We've got to leave.
Tormolen said: We're all a bunch of hypocrites. Sticking our noses into something that we've got no business. What are we doing out here, anyway?
Sulu said: Take it easy, Joe.
Tormolen said: We bring pain and trouble with us, leave men and women stuck out on freezing planets until they die. What are we doing out here in space? Good? What good? We're polluting it, destroying it. We've got no business being out here. No business.
Riley said: Take it easy, Joe.
Sulu said: Now calm down.
Tormolen said: If a man was supposed to fly, he'd have wings. If he was supposed to be out in space, he wouldn't need air to breathe, wouldn't need life-support systems to keep him from freezing to death.
Riley said: Hey, Joey, put the knife down, huh?
Sulu said: You're all steamed up, Joe.
Tormolen said: We don't belong here. It's not ours. Not ours. Destroying and watching. We don't belong. I don't belong. Six people died down there. Why do I deserve to live?
Sulu said: What are you doing, Joe?
Riley said: Hey, Joey, put the knife down. (grabs his arm) Don't be a fool.
Tormolen said: Let go!
Riley said: You're just getting in a sweat about (three men struggle) Let me have the knife!
Sulu said: Joey, don't be a fool.
Tormolen said: Let me go.
Riley said: Joey, give me the knife. (they fall to the floor, Tormolen gets stabbed in the stomach) Emergency! Rec room, area three nine. We need medics!
Captain's Log, supplemental. Our orbit tightening. Our need for efficiency, critical. But unknown to us, a totally new and unusual disease has been brought aboard.
Scene: Bridge.
Riley said: Relative gravity increasing, sir.
Kirk said: Compensate, Mister Riley.
Riley said: Yes, sir.
Sulu said: Magnetic field continuing to shift, sir. Planet continuing to shrink in mass.
Kirk said: Mister Spock?
Spock said: All scanning stations manned, all recorders functioning, Captain.
Riley said: Orbit steady now, sir.
Spock said: Obviously, this planet is condensing more rapidly than expected. A valuable study. We may be seeing Earth's distant future. Before its sun went dark, this planet was remarkably similar to yours.
Sulu said: Helm answering nicely, Captain.
Kirk said: Good.
Uhura said: Communications status, Captain.
Kirk said: Tormolen's record?
Spock said: Psychiatric file, personality quotients.
Kirk said: Was he trying to kill himself?
Spock said: It's doubtful he meant to. He was confused, self-tortured.
Kirk said: Doesn't sound like the man I know.
Spock said: His capacity for self-doubt has always been rather high. What puzzles me is what brought it to the surface with so much force.
Scene: Sickbay.
Chapel said: His breathing rate is dropping, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Compensate with the respirator. Stand by to close. Closing.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: What is it?
Sulu said: Relative gravity increase, sir. Like the planet reached out and yanked at us.
Kirk said: Compensate. (adjusts Riley's controls) Compensate.
Riley said: Orbit steady now, sir. May be a little nervous, I guess.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: This shouldn't be happening. This man should be getting stronger. You sure the respirator's functioning properly?
Chapel said: Yes, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Why is this man dying? Hypo.
Chapel said: He's dead, Doctor.
Mccoy said: The wounds were not that severe.
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: This is McCoy. Captain Kirk to Sickbay.
Kirk said: Uhura, monitor communications. Tell McCoy I'll be there when I can.
Uhura said: Yes, sir.
Spock said: Planet breakup is imminent, Captain. Shrinking in size at an increasing rate. As the planet continues to shrink in size, its surface moves away from us.
Kirk said: Forcing us to spiral down to maintain the same distance from it.
Spock said: Exactly. We must be prepared to respond instantly to any sudden change.
Kirk said: Engine room from Bridge.
Scott said: Scott here, Captain.
Kirk said: Tie into the helm, Scotty. If we should call for power, we'll want it fast.
Scott said: No problem, sir. You'll have it.
Spock said: Rate of compaction seems constant.
Kirk said: Then I'll go see what the good doctor wants. Keep me informed of any change, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Acknowledged.
Sulu said: Don't know if it's this planet or what happened with Joe. I'm sweating like a bridegroom.
Riley said: Yeah, me too.
Sulu said: Hey, why don't you come down to the gym with me, Kevin m'lad?
Riley said: Now?
Sulu said: Why not? Light workout will take the edge off.
Riley said: Sulu, what about. Hey, Sulu, don't be a fool!
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: Intestinal damage wasn't that severe. I got to him in plenty of time. That man should still be alive. The only reason he died, Jim, is he didn't want to live. He gave up.
Kirk said: That's a supposition, Doctor, not a fact.
Mccoy said: Well, that may be. Maybe. I've lost patients before, but not like that. Not Joe's kind. That kind of man doesn't give up.
Kirk said: Coincidence? Maybe.
Mccoy said: You mean that Joe was down on the planet surface and you're gonna ask me if it's connected.
Kirk said: That's exactly what I was going to ask.
Mccoy said: Jim, he was decontaminated. He's been medically checked. We've run every test we know for everything we know.
Kirk said: That's not good enough.
Mccoy said: Well, we're doing everything that's possible.
Kirk said: Bones, I want the impossible checked out too.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Why isn't Mister Sulu at this station?
Riley said: Magnetic pull compensated for, sir. Orbit steady.
Spock said: Take over here, Rand. (a male, not Janice)
Rand said: Yes, sir.
Spock said: You haven't answered my question. Where is Mister Sulu?
Riley said: Have no fear, O'Riley's here. One Irishman is worth ten thousand of you
Spock said: You're relieved, Mister Riley. Lieutenant Uhura, take over this station.
Uhura said: Yes, sir.
Riley said: Now that's what I like. Let the women work too. Universal suffrage.
Spock said: Report to Sickbay, Mister Riley.
Riley said: Sickbay? Exactly where I was heading, sir.
Spock said: Security. Mister Riley is headed for Sickbay. See to it he arrives. Captain Kirk to the Bridge.
Scene: Sickbay.
Riley said: Where's Joe?
Chapel said: Well.
Riley said: He died, didn't he.
Chapel said: Yes.
Riley said: You know something? You have such lovely eyes, pretty lady. (touches her face)
Chapel said: I know he was a friend of yours. This must be a terrible shock.
Riley said: You know what Joe's mistake was? He wasn't born an Irishman.
Scene: Corridor.
Sulu said: (brandishing foil) Richelieu, beware! Stand. No farther. No escape for you. You either leave this bois bloodied, or with my blood on your swords. Cowards!
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Lieutenant Brent, relieve Miss Uhura.
Brent said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: What were their symptoms?
Spock said: Nonviolent at this stage. Slightly disoriented. Riley seemed rather pleased with himself, as if he were
Kirk said: Irrational, or drugged.
Spock said: Precisely.
Kirk said: Security, Lieutenant Uhura.
Uhura said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Both Sulu and Riley, locate and confine. I want every crewman who comes in contact with them medically checked.
Uhura said: Sir, level two, corridor three reports a disturbance. Mister Sulu chasing crewmen with a sword.
Kirk said: Put Security on it.
Spock said: Fascinating. A pattern is developing. First, Tormolen. Hidden personality traits being forced to the surface. Then Riley, who fancies himself a descendant of Irish kings, and now Sulu, who is at heart a swashbuckler out of your 18th century.
Kirk said: Present condition of Psi 2000.
Spock said: Gravity pull increasing. We've shifted to two percent and should stabilise our position.
Kirk said: Helmsman, stabilise position.
Brent said: Helm is not answering to control.
Kirk said: Warp us out of here.
Brent said: No response from engines, sir.
Kirk said: Impulse power then. Blast us out of this orbit.
Brent said: Impulse engines also dead, sir.
Spock said: Engine room, we need power!
Kirk said: Mister Scott, acknowledge. Our controls are dead. Take her.
Sulu said: Richelieu, at last.
Kirk said: Sulu, put that (discovers that the point is sharp) put that thing away.
Sulu said: For honour, Queen, and France! (lunges)
Uhura said: Sulu.
Sulu said: Ah.
Uhura said: Sulu, give me that.
Sulu said: I'll protect you, fair maiden.
Uhura said: Sorry, neither.
Sulu said: Foul Richelieu. (distracted by Uhura's escape, Kirk is able to grab Sulu and Spock does a neck-pinch)
Kirk said: I'd like you to teach me that sometime.
Spock said: Take D'Artagnon here to Sickbay.
Kirk said: Scotty, we need power. Engine room, acknowledge!
Riley said: You rang, sir?
Kirk said: Who's this?
Scene: Engineering.
Riley said: This is Captain Kevin Thomas Riley of the starship Enterprise.
Scene: Bridge.
Riley said: And who is this?
Kirk said: This is Captain Kirk. Get out of the engine room, navigator. Where's Mister Scott?
Riley said: I've relieved Mister Scott of his duties. Now, attention, cooks. This is your captain speaking. I would like double portions of ice cream for the entire crew.
Kirk said: Clear that tube, will you?
Uhura said: Yes, sir.
Riley said: And now, your captain will render an ancient Irish favourite. (sings) I'll take you home again Kathleen
Spock said: Captain. At our present rate of descent, we have less than twenty minutes before we enter planet atmosphere.
Kirk said: And burn up. I know, Mister Spock.
Riley said: Wild and wide to where your heart
Captain's Log, stardate 1704.4. Ship out of control, spiraling down towards planet Psi 2000. We have nineteen minutes of life left without engine power or helm control.
Scene: Corridor outside Engineering.
Kirk said: How did Riley get in there?
Scott said: He ran in, said you wanted us on the Bridge.
Kirk said: He's cut off both helm and power.
Scott said: And he shut the door behind us and locked off the mechanism.
Kirk said: Can't you get to the auxiliary?
Scott said: I can't. He's hooked everything through the main panel in there. Get up to my office and pull the plans for this bulkhead. The only way to get that door open is to cut through these wall circuits here.
Scene: Engineering.
Riley said: (singing) The roses all have left your cheeks. I've watched them fade away and die
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Status reports, all sections.
Uhura said: Mister Spock, a fight in the aft wardroom. Security reports incidents among the crewmen are increasing.
Spock said: Go to Alert Baker two. Seal off main sections.
Uhura said: All decks, alert system B two. Repeat, go to alert condition Baker two. Seal off all main sections. Stand by.
Spock said: We're going to seal off, Captain, if we can minimise the spread of whatever this is.
Kirk said: Continue the alert, Lieutenant.
Uhura said: I can't, sir. He's cut off the alert channels.
Scene: Engineering.
Riley said: Lieutenant Uhura,
Scene: Bridge.
Riley said: You've interrupted my song. I'm sorry, but there'll be no ice cream for you tonight.
Kirk said: Cut him off.
Uhura said: I can't, sir. There's no way to do it.
Riley said: Attention, crew. This is Captain Riley. There will be a formal dance in the bowling alley at nineteen hundred hours tonight.
Spock said: No way, Captain. He controls the main power panels. He can override any channel from down there. Seventeen minutes left, sir. (ship is jolted severely)
Mccoy said: Sickbay to Bridge.
Kirk said: Can you tie me in to the Sickbay?
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: I'm getting you, Jim. Look, can you keep this beast level? I've got Sulu tranquillized and we're running tests on him.
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: So far there's nothing unusual in his bloodstream. Body functions seem normal.
Kirk said: Riley's the immediate problem, Doctor. Is there any way, anything you can do to snap him out of it?
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: Negative, until I can get a little farther on these tests.
Scene: Bridge.
Riley said: This is Captain Riley. Crew, I have some additional orders.
Scene: Engineering.
Riley said: In the future, all female crew members will wear their hair loosely, about their shoulders.
Scene: Bridge.
Riley said: And use restraint in putting on your makeup. Women, women should not look made up. And now, crew, I will render Kathleen one more time!
Kirk said: Please, not again.
Scene: Engineering.
Riley said: (singing) I'll take you home again, Kathleen (meanwhile, Scott is working in a Jefferies tube) I've watched them fade away and die.
Scene: Corridor.
Scott said: I've set the jumpers up there. Stand by 'til I give you a signal.
Scene: Engineering.
Riley said: And tears bedim your loving eyes. Oh,
Scene: Corridor outside Engineering.
Riley said: I will take you home Kathleen.
Scott said: Engineering to Bridge. Try your helm. You'll have enough power to keep her stabilised. Here, let's have a look at that.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Sixteen minutes left, Captain. We've stabilised, but still spiraling down.
Uhura said: Emergency signal, Captain. Both decks four and five. Fights and disorders.
Kirk said: Get me Sickbay.
Uhura said: I have no intercom for Sickbay. He keeps switching channels on me.
Kirk said: See what you can do to help Doctor McCoy. Better check Scotty first. Move him faster. He's got to get through that bulkhead.
Scene: Corridor.
Spock said: Crewman, report to the lab!
Moody said: (singing) I'll take you home again Janice
Spock said: What's going on?
Rand said: Mister Spock, I'm trying to get to the Bridge and this crewman won't let me by.
Spock said: Crewman, stand aside.
Moody said: Oh, yes, sir. I'll take you home again, Janice
Rand said: Spock!
Scene: Corridor outside Engineering.
Spock said: Message from the captain.
Scott said: Tell him I'm doing my best. If I cut through the wrong circuits
Spock said: We have fourteen minutes left.
Scott said: Even if we were under a full-scale attack I couldn't move any faster, not and maintain a safety factor.
Spock said: At the rate you're proceeding, calculations show that you'll take a minute and a half more than we have left. You can't afford a safety factor.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: Biopsy lab. Biopsy, where's my report? Biopsy, come in! Harrison, where's my report? I'm going to the lab.
Chapel said: Sir?
Mccoy said: Yes?
Chapel said: The tranquillizer's wearing off.
Mccoy said: Oh, good. I'll need him conscious now. Continue to examine him on circuits K one and three.
Chapel said: Of course, Doctor.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Get him out of here.
Rand said: I would have gotten here sooner, sir but Crewman Moody stopped me in the hallway.
Kirk said: Take the helm.
Rand said: Sir?
Kirk said: Take the helm!
Rand said: Yes, sir.
Riley said: Kathleen. And now, crew, one more time!
Kirk said: At least try cutting him off!
Uhura said: Sir, if I could cut him off, don't you think I
Riley said: I'll take you home again Kathleen
Uhura said: Yes, sir. I'll keep trying.
Kirk said: Sorry.
Riley said: Across the ocean wild and wide
Kirk said: Scotty.
Scott said: Engine room.
Kirk said: We've got twelve minutes left. It'll take at least two or three of them to get the engines up to power now.
Scott said: Then we'll make it, sir, if all goes right.
Kirk said: Call me when you've cut through. I want to be there. Kirk out.
Scene: Sickbay.
Spock said: Nurse? Where is Doctor McCoy?
Chapel said: He's gone to the lab.
Spock said: Lab. Lab, respond please. Spock here. Lab!
Chapel said: Mister Spock.
Spock said: What is it, Nurse?
Chapel said: Mister Spock, (takes his hand) the men from Vulcan treat their women strangely. At least, people say that, but you're part human too. I know you don't, you couldn't, hurt me, would you? I'm in love with you, Mister Spock. You, the human Mister Spock, the Vulcan Mister Spock.
Spock said: Nurse, you should
Chapel said: Christine, please. I see things, how honest you are. I know how you feel. You hide it, but you do have feeling. Oh, how we must hurt you, torture you.
Spock said: I'm in control of my emotions.
Chapel said: The others believe that. I don't. I love you. I don't know why, but I love you. I do love you just as you are. Oh, I love you.
Spock said: I'm sorry.
Uhura said: Captain is en route to Engineering, Mister Spock. Can you take the bridge? Acknowledge.
Spock said: I am sorry.
Chapel said: Christine.
Spock said: Christine.
Uhura said: Bridge to Sickbay. Is Mister Spock there?
Scene: Corridor.
Uhura said: Mister Spock, would you please acknowledge? (Spock is struggling to keep his control)
Scene: Corridor outside Engineering.
Riley said: I will take you home Kathleen
Scott said: Almost ready, sir.
Riley said: To where your heart will feel no pain. When the fields are fresh and green. I'll take you to your home
Scott said: - Ready, sir.
Kirk said: (to Security) Follow me through. Put your phasers on stun. Don't fire unless he's armed. Go.
Scene: Engineering.
Riley said: I'll take. No dance tonight.
Kirk said: Get him out of here.
Scene: Briefing room.
Spock said: (close to tears) I'm in control of my emotions. Control of my emotions. I am an officer. An officer. My duty. My duty is, is. My duty is to, to. Too late. I'm sorry. To. Two, four, six. Six. Six times six.
Scene: Engineering.
Kirk said: Scotty, we haven't got much time left.
Uhura said: Bridge to Captain.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Uhura said: Entering planet's outer atmosphere, sir.
Scott said: Captain.
Kirk said: What is it?
Scott said: He's turned the engines off. Completely cold. It will take thirty minutes to regenerate them.
Uhura said: Ship's outer skin is beginning to heat, Captain. Orbit plot shows we have about eight minutes left.
Kirk said: Scotty!
Scott said: I can't change the laws of physics. I've got to have thirty minutes.
Captain's Log, supplemental. The Enterprise, spiraling down out of control. Ship's outer skin heating rapidly due to friction with planet atmosphere.
Scott said: Maybe twenty two, twenty three minutes.
Kirk said: Scotty, we've got six.
Scott said: Captain, you can't mix matter and antimatter cold. We'd go up in the biggest explosion since
Kirk said: We can balance our engines into a controlled implosion.
Scott said: That's only a theory. It's never been done.
Kirk said: Bridge, have you found Mister Spock yet?
Scott said: If you wanted to chance odds of ten thousand to one, maybe, assuming we had a row of computers working weeks on the right formula.
Uhura said: Mister Spock is not on the Bridge, Captain.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: (waking up screaming) I was on the Bridge. Hey Doc, what am I doing here?
Mccoy said: McCoy to Bio. We've isolated it. Start preparing serum.
Harrison said: What, Doctor?
Mccoy said: It's water. Somehow on this planet, water's changed to a complex chain of molecules.
Harrison said: What's that, Doctor?
Mccoy said: That's how we missed it. It passed from man to man through perspiration. Once in the bloodstream, it acts like alcohol, depresses the centres of judgment, self-control. Now get someone to the lab. Tell them the serum works, and start preparing more.
Sulu said: Doc, will you let me out of here? I'm all right.
Mccoy said: Release him.
Scene: Briefing room.
Scott said: Engineers, man your stations. Engine rooms, report. Cycling station, report. This will be an emergency restart of engines.
Kirk said: Where have you been? What happened?
Spock said: My mother. I could never tell her I loved her.
Kirk said: We've got four minutes, maybe five.
Spock said: An Earth woman, living on a planet where love, emotion, is bad taste.
Kirk said: We've got to risk a full-power start. The engines were shut off. No time to regenerate them. Do you hear me? We've got to risk a full-power start!
Spock said: I respected my father, our customs. I was ashamed of my Earth blood. (Kirk slaps him) Jim, when I feel friendship for you, I'm ashamed.
Kirk said: (hitting him repeatedly) You've got to hear me! We need a formula. We've got to risk implosion!
Spock said: t's never been done! Understand, Jim. I've spent a whole lifetime learning to hide my feelings. (finally hits Kirk back)
Kirk said: We've got to risk implosion. It's our only chance.
Spock said: It's never been done.
Kirk said: Don't tell me that again, Science Officer! It's a theory. It's possible. We may go up into the biggest ball of fire since the last sun in these parts exploded, but we've got to take that one in ten thousand chance!
Uhura said: Bridge to Captain. Engineer asked, did you find
Kirk said: Yes, I found Mister Spock! I'm talking to Mister Spock, do you understand?
Uhura said: Yes, sir. Three and a half minutes left, Captain.
Kirk said: I've got it, the disease. Love. You're better off without it, and I'm better off without mine. This vessel, I give, she takes. She won't permit me my life. I've got to live hers.
Spock said: Jim.
Kirk said: I have a beautiful yeoman. Have you noticed her, Mister Spock? You're allowed to notice her. The Captain's not permitted
Spock said: Jim, there is an intermix formula.
Kirk said: Now I know why it's called she.
Spock said: It's never been tested. It's a theoretical relationship between time and antimatter.
Kirk said: Flesh woman to touch, to hold. A beach to walk on. A few days, no braid on my shoulder.
Scott said: Captain.
Kirk said: Scotty, help.
Spock said: Stand by to intermix. I'll call the formulae in from the Bridge.
Uhura said: Entering upper stratosphere, Captain. Skin temperature now twenty one hundred seventy degrees.
Kirk said: I've got to hang on. Tell them. Clear the corridors, the turbo lift. Hurry. (Scott and Spock leave) Never lose you. Never.
Scene: Turbolift.
Kirk said: Bridge.
Scene: Bridge.
McCoy gives Kirk a hypo as he leaves the turbolift
Kirk said: Engine room. We're set. Hyperbolic course.
Brent said: Direction, sir?
Kirk said: Direction. Direction. It doesn't matter. The way we came.
Sulu said: Course laid in, sir.
Scene: Engineering.
Spock said: Fuel temperature.
Scott said: Level.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: (gazing at Janice) No beach to walk on.
Rand said: Sir?
Scene: Engineering.
Spock said: Raise antimatter eight and forty degrees.
Scott said: That'll take four minutes.
Spock said: We haven't the time. We'll have to risk it. Bridge, we're ready.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Engage.
Spock said: Are you all right, Jim?
Kirk said: Are you? (Spock nods)
Mccoy said: We found a cure. We're over that part of it.
Spock said: Obviously, we were successful. The engines imploded.
Sulu said: Captain, my velocity gauge is off the scale.
Spock said: Engine power went off the scale as well. We're now travelling faster than is possible for normal space.
Kirk said: Checked elapsed time, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: My chronometer's running backwards, sir.
Kirk said: Time warp. We're going backward in time. Helm, begin reversing power. Slowly.
Sulu said: Helm answering, sir. Power reversing.
Spock said: We're back to normal time, Captain.
Kirk said: Engines ahead. Warp one.
Sulu said: Warp one, sir.
Kirk said: Mister Spock.
Spock said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: The time warp. What did it do to us?
Spock said: We've regressed in time seventy one hours. It is now three days ago, Captain. We have three days to live over again.
Kirk said: Not those last three days.
Spock said: This does open some intriguing prospects, Captain. Since the formula worked, we can go back in time, to any planet, any era.
Kirk said: We may risk it someday, Mister Spock. Resume course to our next destination, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Course laid in, sir.
Kirk said: Steady as she goes.