Let That Be Your Last Battlefield
Stardate: 5730.2
Original Airdate: 10 Jan, 1969
Captain's log, stardate 5730.2. The planet Ariannus is vital as a transfer point on regular space commercial lanes. It has been attacked by a bacterial invasion which threatens to render it lifeless unless checked. Our mission, to decontaminate it.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Mister Chekov, our estimated time of arrival for Ariannus?
Chekov said: At present speed, our eta is three hours, four minutes, sir.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura, advise the planet's ministry of health that we'll begin decontamination procedures immediately upon locking into orbit.
Uhura said: Aye, aye, sir.
Kirk said: Scotty, will that present any problems for you?
Scott said: None, sir. All tanks are being positioned.
Sulu said: Captain, sensors indicate a space vehicle of some sort ahead.
Kirk said: Is it within visual range?
Sulu said: Coming into range now, sir. It's following a very erratic course.
Kirk said: Put it on the screen, extreme magnification.
A wobbly shuttlecraft appears on the viewscreen.
Chekov said: I think that may be a Starfleet shuttlecraft.
Spock said: That is exactly what it is, Mister Chekov.
Sulu said: It looks like the one reported stolen from Starbase Four two weeks ago.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura, try to contact them on command frequency two.
Uhura said: Aye, Captain. No response, sir.
Kirk said: Try all frequencies.
Uhura said: Aye, sir. Hailing on all frequencies.
Spock said: Captain, there is one living creature aboard. Humanoid. He is either injured or ill. His craft shows internal atmospheric leakage. The creature may be suffocating.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Sulu, activate tractor beams.
Sulu said: Tractor beams activated. We have it, sir.
Kirk said: Prepare to bring it aboard the hangar deck.
Sulu said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura, send a security team to the pressure doors on the hangar deck.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, come with me. Scotty.
Scott takes the conn.
Scene: Hangar deck.
As we watch the shuttlecraft land, we think it might say USS Enterprise across it's nose.
Sulu said: Hangar doors open and clearing for entrance of shuttlecraft. Shuttlecraft approaching hangar deck.
Scene: Turbolift.
Sulu said: Bridge to Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Sulu said: Hangar doors closed, and hangar deck is pressurising.
Kirk said: Acknowledged.
As the shuttlecraft turns around, NCC 1701/7 is clearly emblazoned on it. Careless special effects.
Scene: Outside hangar deck.
Kirk said: (to security men) We'll enter as soon as the doors open. Go on my command.
The doors open, and a man falls to the floor. He is white on the right side, and black on the left. This is important.
Scene: Sickbay.
McCoy gives the patient an injection.
Spock said: You are certain, Doctor, that this pigmentation is the natural condition of this individual?
Mccoy said: That's what I've recorded, Mister Spock.
Kirk said: Do we have any knowledge of a planet that could have produced such a race of beings?
Spock said: Negative, Captain.
Kirk said: Bones, what do you make of it?
Mccoy said: Well, I can't give you any specific circumstance that will explain him.
Kirk said: And judging by looking at him, we know at the very least he is the result of a very dramatic conflict. Spock?
Spock said: There is no theory, Captain, from the basic work of Mendel to recent nucleotide studies, which would explain our captive. All gradations of colour from black to brown, to yellow to white are genetically predictable. We must therefore conclude that this alien is that often unaccountable rarity, a mutation, one of a kind.
Mccoy said: Yes, I would agree. That's the case here.
Kirk said: Your prognosis, Doctor?
Mccoy said: Well, I can't give you one, Jim. I've never worked on anyone like him or anything like him.
Spock said: Yet you are pumping him full of your noxious potions as if he were a human.
Mccoy said: When in doubt, the book prevails, Mister Spock. I've run tests. Blood is blood, even when it's green like yours. The organs are there. They're rearranged to a degree, plus a few I've never seen before. Now, I've enriched the oxygen content of his blood and pumped in a strong stimulant. And I must say his recuperative powers appear to be excellent. SPOCK: With your permission, Captain, I shall do some further research and join you on the bridge.
)Spock leaves.)
Chapel said: He's coming around, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Well, touch and go there for a minute, but you're out of danger now.
Kirk said: You're aboard the starship Enterprise.
Lokai said: I've heard of it. It's in the United Fleet of Planets?
Kirk said: Federation. So was the shuttlecraft that you were flying in.
Lokai said: It was?
Kirk said: Don't you usually know whose property you've stolen?
Lokai said: I am not a thief.
Kirk said: Well, certainly no ordinary thief, considering what it is you appropriated.
Lokai said: You're being very loose with your accusations and drawing conclusions without any facts.
Kirk said: Well, I do know you made off with a ship that didn't belong to you.
Lokai said: I do not make off with things. My need gave me the right to use the ship. Mark the word, sir, the use of it.
Kirk said: You can try those technical evasions on Starfleet Command. That's where you'll be facing your charges.
Lokai said: I'm grateful for your rescue.
Kirk said: Don't mention it. We're pleased to have caught you. Who are you?
Lokai said: My name is Lokai.
Kirk said: Go on.
Lokai said: From the planet Cheron.
Kirk said: That's in the southernmost part of the galaxy, in an uncharted quarter. What are you doing so far from home? (no answer) You understand that when we complete our mission, we'll take you to Starbase where you'll face a very serious charge.
Lokai said: The charge is trifling. I would've returned the ship as soon as I
Kirk said: Had what? What were you going to do?
Lokai said: You monotone humans are all alike. First you condemn and then attack. I will answer no more questions.
Mccoy said: Well, however we view him, Captain, he's certainly no ordinary specimen. Lokai, I don't know what's normal for you exactly, but if I had your readings, I'd be the most incredible physical specimen of all time.
Kirk said: We've never encountered a being like you. I'd like to know more about you and your planet.
Lokai said: I'm very tired.
Kirk said: And very evasive. Or at least not fully responsive. Now, then,
Lokai said: I insist, I'm extremely tired. Made so by your vindictive cross-examinations. I will answer no more questions.
Kirk goes to a desk monitor.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura.
Uhura said: Lieutenant Uhura here.
Kirk said: Notify Starbase Four that we've recovered its shuttlecraft, and it will be returned along with its user as soon as we've completed our mission at Ariannus.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Bones, if you're satisfied that the mutation theory is applicable, I'll make a note of it in my report.
Mccoy said: Unless we get more information from him, it'll have to serve.
Intercom whistle
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Chekov said: Captain, contact with alien ship, sir.
Kirk said: I'll be right there. Notify Mister Spock.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Put the ship on the viewing screen, Mister Sulu. Magnification. Still nothing, Mister Chekov.
Chekov said: I verify, sir, it's out there.
Kirk said: Maximum magnification. I draw a blank, Mister Spock. Your response?
Spock said: Negative, Captain.
Chekov said: No malfunction, sir. The reading persists.
Kirk said: What is it?
Spock said: There is a vessel out there, Captain.
Kirk said: Could it be a Romulan ship using their cloaking device?
Spock said: Negative. This would not be a Romulan vessel. It is totally alien in configuration. Motive power unknown. Small size of the craft indicates a rapid scout vessel, one or two-man crew.
Uhura said: Captain, I've tried all hailing frequencies. Negative, sir.
Kirk said: Weaponry on the vessel, Spock?
Spock said: Nothing identifiable. The craft appears to be built for speed rather than combat.
Kirk said: Something out there can't be seen. Explanation?
Spock said: None. Completely elusive. In fact, it's invisible.
Kirk said: Invisible. Malfunction?
Spock said: There is no sensor failure. The readings persist.
Chekov said: It's headed straight for us!
Kirk said: Evasive action.
Chekov said: It shifts with us, sir. And we're pushing to the limit!
Kirk said: Deflector shields activated, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Automatic, sir.
Chekov said: We're on collision course.
Sulu said: It's out of control or a suicide mission.
Kirk said: Sound warning for collision. Red Alert.
Sulu said: Brace yourself for collision. Brace yourself.
Nothing happens.
Kirk said: Read out, Mister Spock.
Spock said: It just disintegrated. Fascinating.
Kirk said: What is it now?
Spock said: It is gone now, Captain, but it seems to have deposited an alien presence.
Kirk said: Where?
Bele said: Right here, Captain.
By the turbolift doors is a man, white on the left side, black on the right.
Kirk said: Explain, Spock. One of a kind?
Bele said: I am Bele.
Kirk said: Of the planet Cheron, no doubt.
Bele said: Forgive my unorthodox arrival.
Kirk said: Your mode of travel was also unorthodox. Secure from Red Alert. What happened to your vehicle?
Bele said: It served me long and durably. Unfortunately, the strain of arduous pursuit has exceeded even its advanced qualities. I was just able to complete this trip and disembark in time, or I would have disintegrated in space with it.
Spock said: A most unique craft. Pity it couldn't be salvaged for our study.
Bele said: Yes. It was sheathed in special materials that rendered it invisible.
Kirk said: What brings you to us?
Bele said: You bear precious cargo, Lokai. He has taken refuge aboard this ship. I am here to claim him.
Kirk said: All personnel aboard this vessel are subject to my command. No one claims anyone without due process.
Bele said: My apologies, Captain. I overstepped my powers. Claim is undoubtedly an unfortunate word.
Kirk said: What is your authorisation? From what source?
Bele said: I am chief officer of the Commission on Political Traitors. Lokai was tried and convicted of treason, but had escaped. May I see him, please?
Kirk said: He's in Sickbay. Remember, since you're aboard the Enterprise, you're bound by its regulations.
Bele said: With your permission, Captain.
Kirk said: Mister Spock.
Scene: Sickbay.
Bele said: Well, Lokai, it's a pleasure to see you again. This time I'm sure our joining will be of a more permanent nature. Captain, you are to be congratulated. Never before has Lokai been rendered so quiescent.
Lokai said: I will not return to Cheron with him, to a land of murdering oppressors!
Kirk said: I told you where you were going. I allowed your fellow countryman here simply as a courtesy.
Bele said: And you see how this killer repays you, as he repays all his benefactors.
Lokai said: Benefactors? He's a liar. He raided our homes, tore us from our families, herded us together like cattle and then sold us as slaves!
Bele said: They were savages, Captain. We took them into our hearts, our homes. We educated them.
Lokai said: Yes, just education enough to serve the master race.
Bele said: You were the product of our love! And you repaid us with murder.
Lokai said: Why should a slave show mercy to the enslaver?
Bele said: Slaves? That was changed thousands of years ago. You were freed.
Lokai said: Freed? Were we free to be men? Free to be husbands and fathers? Free to live our lives in equality and dignity?
Bele said: Yes, you were free, if you knew how to use your freedom. You were free enough to slaughter and to burn all the things that had been built!
Lokai said: I tried to break the chains of a hundred million people. My only crime is that I failed. To that I do plead guilty.
Bele said: There is an order in things. He asked for utopia in a day. It can't be done.
Lokai said: Not in a day. And not in ten times ten thousand years by your thinking. To you, we are a loathsome breed who will never be ready. Genocide for my people is the plan for your utopia.
Bele said: You insane, you filthy little plotter of ruin. You vicious subverter of every decent thought. Oh, you're coming back to pay for your crimes!
Lokai said: I know you and all those with whom you're plotting to take power permanently. When I return to Cheron, you will understand what power is. I will have armies of followers.
Kirk said: It's now very clear you know each other extremely well, gentlemen. The only service this ship can offer is to bring you together. It is not a battlefield.
Lokai said: Captain, I led revolutionaries, not criminals. I demand political asylum. This ship is a sanctuary.
Kirk said: I'll tell you once more. For you, this ship is a prison.
Bele said: Captain, it is imperative that you return Lokai to Cheron for judgment.
Kirk said: Commissioner, Cheron is not a member of the Federation. No treaties have ever been signed. Your demand for possession of this prisoner cannot be honoured. There are no extradition procedures to allow it. Is that clear, Commissioner Bele?
Bele said: Captain, I hope you will be sensible.
Kirk said: How do you mean?
Bele said: Co-operation.
Kirk said: I cannot take sides.
Bele said: Since I am without a vessel to return to Cheron, I insist that you take us there immediately.
Kirk said: Impossible. I have a mission to accomplish. There's a planet to be decontaminated. Millions of lives are at stake. Once that has been completed, I'll return to Starbase Four and turn you both over to the authorities. You can make your case to them.
Bele said: I am sorry, Captain. That will not be satisfactory, not at all satisfactory.
Kirk said: Commissioner, as a visiting dignitary from a far planet, I offer you every hospitality aboard this ship. Choose any other course,
Bele said: You're the captain.
Kirk said: Yes, I am. I think we can consider your problem settled. At least for the present. I have ordered guest quarters for you on deck six.
Bele leaves with a security escort.
Kirk said: And I suggest you get a great deal of rest, especially your vocal chords. It seems you'll have a double opportunity to practise your oratory on Starbase Four.
Chekov said: Chekov to Captain Kirk. Chekov to Captain Kirk. Urgent.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Chekov said: Captain, we're off course.
Kirk said: Well, get back on course.
Chekov said: That's just it, sir. The ship's taken a new heading all by itself.
Kirk said: I'll be right there.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Have you located the malfunction?
Sulu said: No, sir. The ship is unresponsive. We're moving away from Ariannus.
Kirk said: Explanation, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Elusive, Captain. I am investigating.
Sulu said: I can't understand it. I simply have no control.
Kirk said: Kirk to engineering.
Scott said: Scott here.
Kirk said: Scotty, we're suddenly off course. Check our manoeuvering controls.
Scene: Engineering.
Scott said: Aye, sir. Hold. Captain, no malfunction indicated.
Kirk said: Switch to auxiliary.
Scott said: Aye, sir. Out. (presses a lot of buttons.) Engineer to bridge.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Scott said: On auxiliary, sir.
Kirk said: Stand by for check. Scotty, we're still off course.
Scott said: I'll be right up.
Kirk said: Speed, Mister Chekov.
Chekov said: We're moving at warp eight.
Kirk said: And new course?
Chekov said: four oh three mark seven. Straight for the Coal Sack if there is no letup.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura, put the ship on Red Alert. All hands, this is the captain. The ship is on Red Alert.
Scene: Engineering.
Kirk said: Repeat, the ship is on Red Alert. There has been an unidentified malfunction in the ship's directional control.
Scene: Sickbay.
Kirk said: Repeat, the ship is off course and out of our control.
As the guard heads off to his battle station, Lokai dashes out of Sickbay.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott enters.
Kirk said: Our new heading, Mister Chekov?
Chekov said: Four oh three mark seven.
Kirk said: Spock?
Spock said: Confirmed, Captain. Holding pattern. Co-ordinates now indicate we are charting course to (pause) Captain, Cheron lies between four oh three mark seven and mark nine.
Bele enters
Bele said: We're on the way to Cheron. Captain, this ship is now under my direction. For fifty thousand of your terrestrial years, I have been pursuing Lokai through the galaxy. I have not travelled this far, this long, only to give him up. This ship goes where my will drives it.
Scott said: Captain, we are now at warp ten and the speed is increasing!
Lokai enters
Spock said: Captain, course is now clearly straight for Cheron, despite all efforts to direct us to Ariannus.
Lokai said: I will not return to Cheron. Captain, you must guarantee me sanctuary.
Bele said: He cannot help you now. You are lost, Lokai. You're on the way to judgment, to final punishment.
Lokai said: Stop him.
Bele said: You evil mound of filth. Not this time.
Lokai said: My cause is just. You must help me. All of you must help me.
Bele said: Oh, the old cry. Pity me, pity me. Everywhere he's gone, he's been helped to escape. On every planet he's found fools who bleed for him and shed tears for the oppressed one. But there is no escape for you on this ship. This is your last sanctuary.
Lokai said: Kill him. Kill him!
Kirk said: You're two of a kind.
Bele said: And we are both going to Cheron. You cannot change the course of this ship any more than you can change me. This ship goes where I want it to go.
Kirk said: Security, put them both in the brig.
The security guards are held back by forcefields.
Kirk said: Phasers on stun. Fire. (no effect)
Bele said: Your phasers are ineffective against our shields. You are helpless, Captain.
Lokai said: What a fool I am, expecting help from someone like you.
Kirk said: This ship is going to Ariannus.
Bele said: No, this ship is going to Cheron. I will let nothing interfere.
Kirk said: We are going to Ariannus. The lives of a billion people make no other choice possible.
Bele said: You are being obtuse, Captain. I am permitting no choice. My will now controls this, and nothing can break it.
Kirk said: Bele, I am captain of this ship, and it will follow whatever course I set for it, or I will order its destruction.
Bele said: You're bluffing.
Kirk said: I will destroy it.
Bele said: You can no more destroy this ship than I can change colour.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura, tie in the bridge to the master computer.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Computer, destruct sequence. Are you ready to copy?
Computer said: Working.
Kirk said: Prepare to verify destruct sequence code one. Computer, this is Captain James Kirk of the USS Enterprise. Destruct sequence one, code one, one A.
COMPUTER Voice and code one, one A verified and correct. Sequence one complete.
Kirk said: Mister Spock.
Spock said: This is Commander Spock, science officer. Destruct sequence number two, code one, one A, two B.
Computer said: Voice and code verified and correct. Sequence two complete.
Kirk said: Mister Scott.
Scott said: This is Lieutenant Commander Scott, chief engineering officer of the USS Enterprise. Destruct sequence number three, code one B, two B, three.
Computer said: Voice and code one B, two B, three verified and correct. Destruct sequence completed and engaged. Awaiting final code for thirty second countdown.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, has the ship returned to the course set for it by my orders?
Spock said: Negative, Captain. We are still headed directly for Cheron.
Computer said: Destruct sequence engaged. Awaiting final code for thirty second countdown.
Kirk said: Computer, this is Captain James Kirk of the USS Enterprise. Begin thirty second countdown. Code zero, zero, zero, destruct zero.
Computer said: Thirty seconds. twenty nine, twenty eight, twenty seven, (break) twenty five seconds,
Kirk said: Let's see you prevent the computer from fulfilling my commands.
Computer said: Twenty seconds,
Kirk said: From five to zero, no command in the universe can prevent the computer from fulfilling its destruct orders.
Computer said: Fifteen seconds,
Kirk said: You can use your will to drag this ship to Cheron. But I command the computer. Mine is the final command.
Computer said: Ten, nine, eight, seven, six,
Bele said: I agree!
Kirk said: Computer. This is Captain James Kirk of the USS Enterprise. Code one, two, three continuity. Abort destruct order. Repeat code one, two, three continuity. Abort destruct order.
Computer said: Destruct order aborted. Destruct order aborted.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, is this ship headed for Ariannus?
Spock said: Negative, Captain. The Enterprise is now moving in a circular course.
Scott said: And at warp ten, we're going now here mighty fast.
Lokai said: I warned you of his treachery. Kill him!
Kirk said: We're waiting for you to fulfil your commitment, Commissioner.
Bele said: Captain, I am happy to have you complete your mission of mercy to the planet Ariannus. It was madness to interfere with such a worthwhile endeavour. But, if you will, upon completion, please take me and my traitorous captive to Cheron.
Kirk said: I make no deals for control of this ship, sir.
Bele said: The ship's course is now in your control.
Kirk said: Ship's course?
Spock said: Enterprise is now on course to Ariannus, Captain.
Kirk said: Speed, Scotty?
Scott said: Warp six and smoothly operating, sir.
Kirk said: Good. Lieutenant Uhura, cancel Red Alert.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Kirk said: Let me reaffirm my position, gentlemen. I could put you in the brig for what you have done, but I won't do it because you are new to this part of the galaxy, which is governed by the United Federation of Planets. We live in peace with full exercise of individual rights. The need to resort to violence and force has long since passed, and it will not be tolerated aboard this ship. You are free to move about the ship. I hope that you'll take the opportunity to know more about the Federation through its best representatives, my crew. But let me make it clear. I will stand for no interference with the function of this ship. All hands, return to normal routine. Captain out.
Bele leaves, with an escort.
Lokai said: You speak very well, Captain. Your words promise justice for all.
Kirk said: We try, sir.
Lokai said: Yes, well, I have learned to wait for actions. After Ariannus, what is justice? I shall wait to see it dispensed.
Lokai leaves
Spock said: Fascinating. Two irrevocably hostile humanoids.
Scott said: Disgusting is what I call them.
Spock said: That description is not scientifically accurate.
Scott said: Mister Spock, the word disgusting describes exactly what I feel about those two.
Kirk said: That's enough for today. Those two are beginning to affect you.
Scene: Rec room.
Crew are sitting at tables, not playing chess, while Lokai expounds his case. Spock and we are listening from outside.
Lokai said: And I know from my actions you must all think me a volcanic hothead, erupting lava from my nostrils at danger signals that are only figments of my imagination. But believe me, my friends, there can be no moment when I can have my guard down where such as Bele is present. So what happens? I act the madman out of the anger and frustration he forces upon me, and thereby prove his point that I am a madman.
Sulu said: No one knows how he'll react under pressure, Lokai.
Chekov said: After all, we are only human.
Lokai said: Ah, Mister Chekov, therein lies my lack of ability to alert you and your captain to the real threat of someone like Bele. You see, you are from the planet Earth. There is no persecution on your planet. How can you understand my fear, my apprehension, my degradation, my suffering?
Chekov said: There was persecution on Earth once. I remember reading about it in my history class.
Sulu said: Yes, but it happened way back in the twentieth century. There's no such primitive thinking today.
Lokai said: You have read about it in history, I see. How can I make your flesh know how it feels to see all those who are like you, and only because they are like you, despised, slaughtered, and even worse, denied the simplest bit of decency that is a living being's right? Do you know what it would be like to be dragged out of your hovel into a war on another planet? A battle that will serve your oppressor and bring death to you and your brothers?
Scene: Captain's mess.
Bele said: Putting the matter into the hands of your Starfleet Command is, of course, the proper procedure. How long will it be before we hear from them, Captain?
Kirk said: I expect the answer is already on its way.
Bele said: Well, then, let us drink to their wise solution to our problem.
Kirk said: Let's do that.
Spock said: Commissioner, Starfleet Command may not arrive at the solution you anticipate. There is the matter of the shuttlecraft which Lokai appropriated. The interrogation of that matter may be of paramount importance to Starfleet.
Bele said: Gentlemen, we are discussing a question of degree. Surely, stealing a shuttlecraft cannot be equated with the importance of murdering thousands of people.
Spock said: We do not know that Lokai has done that.
Bele said: One thing we are agreed on is that Lokai is a criminal.
Kirk said: No, Commissioner. The one thing we're agreed upon is that Lokai took a shuttlecraft.
Intercom whistle
Kirk said: Excuse me.
Uhura said: Uhura to Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Uhura said: I have a communication from Starfleet Command, sir.
Kirk said: Yes, read it.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Starfleet Command extends greetings to Commissioner Bele of the planet Cheron. His urgent request to be transported to his planet with the man he claims prisoner has been taken under consideration.
Scene: Captain's mess.
UHURA [OC}; It is with great regret that we cannot honour that request. Intergalactic treaty clearly specifies that no being can be extradited without due process. In view of the circumstances, we have no doubt that after a hearing at Starbase, Commissioner Bele will be permitted to retain his prisoner and be provided transportation
Kirk said: That's enough. Thank you.
Bele said: As always, Lokai has managed to gain allies.
Kirk said: Now, wait a minute, Commissioner,
Bele said: Even if they don't recognise themselves as being such. Yes, he will evade, delay, and escape again and in the process put thousands of innocent beings at each other's throats, getting them to kill and maim for a cause which they have no stake in, but which he will force them to violently espouse by twisting their minds with his lies, his loathsome accusations and his foul threats.
Kirk said: I can assure you, Commissioner, that our minds will not be twisted, not by Lokai, nor by you.
Bele said: It is obvious to the most simpleminded that Lokai is of an inferior breed.
Spock said: The obvious visual evidence, Commissioner, is that he is of the same breed as yourself.
Bele said: Are you blind, Commander Spock? Well, look at me. Look at me!
Kirk said: You're black on one side and white on the other.
Bele said: I am black on the right side.
Kirk said: I fail to see the significant difference.
Bele said: Lokai is white on the right side. All of his people are white on the right side.
Spock said: Commissioner, perhaps the experience of my own planet Vulcan may set an example of some value to you. Vulcan was in danger of being destroyed by the same conditions and characteristics which threaten to destroy Cheron. We were once a people like yourselves, wildly emotional, often committed to irrationally opposing points of view, leading, of course, to death and destruction. Only the discipline of logic saved my planet from extinction.
Bele said: Commander Spock, I am delighted that Vulcan was saved, but you cannot expect Lokai and people like him to act with self-discipline any more than you can expect a planet to stop orbiting its sun.
Kirk said: Let Lokai state his grievances. Hear him, listen to him. Maybe he can change. Maybe he wants to change his image.
Bele said: He cannot change.
Spock said: Change is the essential process of all existence. For instance, the people of Cheron must have once been mono-coloured.
Bele said: You mean like both of you?
Kirk said: There must have been a time, long ago no doubt, when that was true.
Intercom whistle
Kirk said: Excuse me. Kirk here.
Scott said: We're orbiting Ariannus, sir.
Kirk said: Very good. Commence decontamination procedures when ready. Advise when complete.
Scott said: At once, sir. Scott out.
Bele said: I once heard that on some of your planets people believe they are descended from apes.
Spock said: The actual theory is that all life-forms evolved from the lower levels to the more advanced stages.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Ready for decontamination procedure.
Chekov said: Ready, sir.
Sulu said: Ready here.
Uhura said: Ready, Mister Scott.
Scott said: Mister Sulu, lock into co-ordinates requested by Ariannus.
Sulu said: Locked in, sir.
Scott said: Mister Chekov, position tanks for spray release.
Chekov said: Tanks positioned.
Scott said: Lieutenant Uhura, advise Ariannus the mission is to begin on signal. All ground precautions must be ready.
Uhura said: Ariannus says go ahead.
Scott said: Well, let 'er rip.
The planet they are orbiting turns orange, then white and blue
Scott said: Scott to Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Scott said: First run complete, sir.
Scene: Captain's mess.
Kirk said: Good. Repeat procedure for maximum effect.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Aye, sir. Ready to repeat decontamination procedure.
Chekov said: Ready, sir.
Scott said: Mister Sulu?
Sulu said: Ready here.
This time the oceans and land masses are very clearly seen. Not a cloud in the sky.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Scott said: We're completing the final orbit of Ariannus, sir. I'm awaiting instructions to set course for the next destination.
Kirk said: Very good. We'll be right up.
Scene: Captain's mess.
Kirk said: Set directional controls for Starbase Four. Kirk out. Will you join us on the bridge?
Bele said: There is nothing I would like more.
Captain's log, stardate 5730.7. Having completed our mission to Ariannus, the Enterprise is now on course to Starbase Four. The crew is on normal routine, and we are proceeding without incident.
Scene: Bridge.
Chekov is hunched over Spock's station.
Spock said: Trouble, Mister Chekov?
Chekov said: I don't rightly know, Mister Spock. I was trying to programme for Starbase Four as ordered. I can't get a response.
Uhura said: It just seemed to go dead, sir.
Spock said: Captain, some of the memory banks of the computer are burned out.
Kirk said: Can you determine which ones?
Bele said: The directional control and the self-destruct, Captain, are both burnt out. I did it like this.
Bele waves his hands over the computer controls and they flash in electrical short-circuits
Captain's log, stardate 5730.6. In a deliberate act of sabotage, Commissioner Bele has burned out our destruct mechanism and through the power of his will has again taken over directional control of the Enterprise.
Scene: Bridge.
Lokai enters
Bele said: Now can we go to Cheron without any more discussion?
Kirk said: At the moment, I seem to have no choice.
Lokai said: So this is justice after Ariannus! You have signed my death warrant. I warned you what to expect. Will you continue to let this mockery of justice go on? If you are partisans of justice, prove it! Kill him!
Chekov said: We are not killers.
Lokai said: What do you do, carry justice on your tongues? You will beg for it, but you won't fight or die for it. KIRK: After so many years of leading the fight, you seem very much alive.
Spock said: I doubt that the same can be said for many of his followers.
Bele said: You're finished, Lokai! We've got your kind penned in on Cheron into little districts, and it's not going to change. You've combed the galaxy and come up with nothing but mono-coloured trash, do-gooders and bleeding hearts. You're dead, you half-white!
Lokai said: You useless pieces of bland flesh. I'll take you with me, you half-black.
They lunge for each others throats, and send off electrical charges.
Kirk said: Bele, you keep this up, and you'll never get to Cheron with your prisoner. The rest of this ship will be irreparably damaged. This will be your final battlefield. Your fifty thousand years of pursuit will have been wasted.
Bele and Lokai separate
Kirk said: And you, Lokai, will die here in space. You'll inspire no more disciples. Your cause will be ended.
Lokai said: Remember, Captain, political sanctuary is my right. I am your prisoner. Honour that right, or the fight will go on and your ship will burn up.
Kirk said: You've made your point.
Bele said: If you listen to his legalistic trickery, I shall have to destroy this ship and everybody aboard.
Kirk said: I understand. Will you return the Enterprise to my control?
Bele said: Why not?
Kirk said: Scotty, have repairs on directional control been completed?
Scott said: Aye, sir. Re-routed.
Kirk said: Check controls and co-ordinates.
Sulu said: Controls operating. The Enterprise is responding as always. Captain, it's beautiful.
Chekov said: Locking onto co-ordinates.
Spock said: Captain, we are within scanning range of Cheron.
Kirk said: Is it within visual range?
Spock said: Coming within visual range now, Captain.
Kirk said: Chekov, put it on the screen. Extreme magnification. What are you picking up?
Spock said: Several large cities, uninhabited. Extensive traffic systems, barren of traffic. Lower animal sand vegetation encroaching on the cities. No sapient life-forms registering at all, Captain. There is no evidence of natural disaster, yet there are vast numbers of unburied corpses in all cities.
Kirk said: You mean, all the people are dead?
Spock said: All dead, Captain. They have annihilated each other totally.
Bele said: My people, all dead?
Kirk said: Yes, Commissioner, all of them.
Lokai said: No one alive?
Spock said: None at all, sir.
Bele said: Your band of murderers did this.
Lokai said: Your genocidal maniacs did this!
They attack each other again.
Kirk said: Stop it! What's the matter with you two? Didn't you hear Spock? Your planet is dead! There's nobody alive on Cheron because of hate. The cause you fought about no longer exists. Give yourselves time to breathe. Give up your hate. You're welcome to live with us. Listen to me. You both must end up dead if you don't stop hating.
Lokai said: You're an idealistic dreamer.
Lokai leaves
Kirk said: Bele. The chase is finished.
Bele said: He must not escape me.
Spock said: Where can he go?
Bele leaves
Kirk said: Bele.
Uhura said: Shall I alert security, sir?
Kirk said: No, Lieutenant. Where can they run?
Through the ship, knocking over crewmen, whilst imagining the buildings burning on their home planet.
Spock said: Captain, I have located them on ship's sensors. Bele is chasing Lokai on deck three. Bele is passing recreation room three, approaching the crewmen's lounge. Lokai is running past the crewmen's lounge. Lokai has just arrived on deck five. Passing recreation room three.
Lokai beams himself away
Uhura said: Captain, someone has activated the transporter mechanism.
Kirk said: Spock, anyone in the transporter room?
Spock said: Negative, Captain. Transporter room is clear. However, there is a life-form materialising on the planet. It is Lokai. He is back on Cheron.
Kirk said: There's nobody there to try him. His judges are all dead.
Uhura said: Captain, the transporter mechanism has been activated again.
Kirk said: Of course.
Spock said: It is Bele, Captain. And another life-form has appeared on Cheron.
Uhura said: It doesn't make any sense.
Spock said: To expect sense from two mentalities of such extreme viewpoints is not logical.
Sulu said: But their planet's dead. Does it matter now which one's right?
Spock said: Not to Lokai and Bele. All that matters to them is their hate.
Uhura said: Do you suppose that's all they ever had, sir?
Kirk said: No, but that's all they have left. Warp factor two, Mister Sulu. Set course for Starbase Four.