Whom Gods Destroy
Stardate: 5718.3
Original Airdate: 3 Jan, 1969
Captain's Log, stardate 5718.3. The Enterprise is orbiting Elba Two, a planet with a poisonous atmosphere where the Federation maintains an asylum for the few remaining incorrigible criminally insane of the galaxy. We are bringing a revolutionary new medicine to them, a medicine with which the Federation hopes to eliminate mental illness for all time. I am transporting down with Mister Spock, and we're delivering the medicine to Doctor Donald Cory, the governor of the colony.
Scene: Control room.
Kirk said: Donald, good to see you.
Spock said: Governor.
Cory said: Gentlemen, you don't know what a treat this is for me. It's been too long since I've had company. The force field's back in place now. That means you two are trapped here, and I'm not accepting any excuses for your not dining with me.
Kirk said: We'd be delighted.
Spock said: Governor, you indicated one additional inmate since our last visit, making a total of fifteen. Is that correct?
Cory said: It is. The rehabilitation programme isn't progressing too well, and I have my doubts about the effectiveness of this medicine too.
Kirk said: Why, Donald, are you becoming a pessimist?
Cory said: I'm afraid I have.
Spock said: A total of fifteen incurably insane out of billions is not what I would call an excessive figure. Who is the new inmate?
Cory said: Garth. Garth of Izar, a former Starship fleet Captain.
He calls up a picture on a monitor
Kirk said: When I was a cadet at the Academy, his exploits were required reading. He was one of my heroes. I'd like to see him.
Cory said: Of course.
Scene: Detention area.
Cory leads them down a corridor, using a hand device to deactivate and reactivate forcefields rather than locking and unlocking doors.
Marta said: (an Orion woman) Captain! You're making a mistake.
Cory said: Captain Kirk is pressed for time at the moment, Marta.
Marta said: There's nothing the matter with me! Can't you see just by looking at me? Can't you tell just by listening?
Spock said: She sounds rational enough, Captain.
Marta said: I am rational.
Kirk said: What is it you want to tell me?
Marta said: I can't tell you in front of him.
Kirk said: You're afraid to talk in front of Governor Cory?
Marta said: He isn't really Governor Cory at all, that's just it.
Cory said: She's been saying that for days now. Our medical staff can't figure out why.
They pass an Andorian and a Tellarite
Cory said: Here's Garth. He's been unusually disturbed, and we've had to impose additional restraint.
The occupant of the cell is suspended in mid-air, and looks exactly like their host!
Kirk said: Cory?
Cory said: (in cell) Yes, Jim, I'm Cory. It's true. He tricked you.
The Cory with Kirk and Spock changes into Garth. He unlocks the other cells and the occupants come out.
Garth said: You said you wanted to see me, Captain. Well, here I am.
during the opening titles, Kirk has been put in the cell with Cory, and Spock is dragged away by the Andorian and Tellarite, apparently unconscious.
Garth said: Your Vulcan friend is still alive, Captain. My phaser was set to stun, not to kill. He'll be quite comfortable. Almost as comfortable as you and our esteemed governor.
Kirk said: Garth, do you have to make him suffer like that?
Garth said: You will address me by my proper title, Kirk.
Kirk said: I'm sorry. I should've said Captain Garth.
Garth said: I am Lord Garth, formerly of Izar, and I lead the future masters of the universe.
Kirk said: I'm sorry, Lord Garth.
Garth said: You Earth people are a stiff necked lot, aren't you?
Kirk said: Release him.
Garth said: I'm afraid that subjugating you won't be enough. You must be confined. And all the people of the galaxy who will not bow to my will must be confined or destroyed.
Cory said: Captain Garth, listen to me.
Garth said: Oh ho! Our beloved governor has decided to address us, and we have not given him our permission to speak.
Kirk said: Are you so afraid of him that you must keep him pinned?
Garth said: (releasing Cory) I'm afraid of no one. You're all powerless against me.
Kirk said: Thank you. Now what have you done with the medicine?
Garth said: The medicine? You mean the poison. I destroyed it.
Kirk said: Destroyed it? It was your only hope.
Garth said: Silence! The chatter of inferior weaklings wearies me, and it's time I took command of the Enterprise. You'll help me, of course.
Kirk said: Of course.
Garth said: My crew mutinied. The first use I will make of the Enterprise is to hunt them down and punish them for that.
Kirk said: The crew of the Enterprise will also mutiny.
Garth said: But they won't. You see, Captain, there's a helpful technique I've mastered.
And Garth changes into Kirk.
Marta said: Good bye, darling. I'll miss you.
Garth-Kirk and Marta leave
Kirk said: Governor Cory, how do you feel?
Cory said: All right. There is no help for any of us if that madman is in command of the Enterprise. He boasts that he's created the most powerful explosive in the universe, and I believe him.
Kirk said: How does he manage to change form at will?
Cory said: The people of Antos taught him the techniques of cellular metamorphosis to restore the destroyed parts of his body. By himself, he later learned to use the technique to recreate himself into any form he wished. The first time we knew about it was when a guard, seeing what he thought was me in Garth's cell, released him.
Kirk said: He was such a genius. What a waste.
Scene: Control room.
Kirk is really Garth, remember. The Andorian and Tellarite are with him.
Kirk said: Force field is on. Good. Remain here out of sight until I give the order to join me. Kirk to Enterprise.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Scott here, sir.
Kirk said: Beam me aboard.
Scott said: Aye, sir. Queen to queen's level three.
Kirk said: I said beam me aboard.
Scott said: I said, queen to queen's level three.
Kirk said: We have no time for chess problems. Beam me aboard!
Scott said: I'm following your orders, Captain. Queen to queen's level three.
Kirk said: Just testing. Be in touch with you later.
Scene: Control room.
Kirk said: (throws a tantrum) No! No! No! (ends up thumping the floor until he changes beck to Garth.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: I gave him the sign. Why didn't he give me the countersign?
Mccoy said: Something's wrong.
Scott said: Using the chess problem was the Captain's own suggestion. He couldn't have forgotten it, and I can't believe he was testing me. Lieutenant, re establish communication.
Uhura said: Aye, sir. There's no response, Mister Scott.
Scott said: Send an armed detail to the transporter room immediately.
Uhura said: Aye, aye, sir.
Scott said: Mister Sulu, what do your sensors show?
Sulu said: We can't beam anybody down, sir. The force field on the planet is in full operation, and all forms of transport into the asylum dome are blocked off.
Scott said: We could blast our way through the field, but only at the risk of destroying the Captain, Mister Spock and any other living thing on Elba Two.
Mccoy said: How can we be powerful enough to wipe out a planet and still be so helpless?
Scene: Control room.
Garth said: We are going to take the Enterprise, do you hear me? We are going to take her if I have to shatter every bone in Captain Kirk's body.
Scene: Detention area.
Garth said: Captain? Captain Kirk? Well, I hope you haven't been too uncomfortable, Captain.
Kirk said: Thank you for your concern. All in all, it's been rather restful.
Garth said: Good. Still, I've been quite remiss in my duties as your host. I did invite you down to dinner, as you may recall.
Kirk said: I'd forgotten.
Garth said: But I haven't. You and Mister Spock are to be my guests.
Kirk said: Where is Mister Spock?
Garth said: Right here. Marta!
Spock enters with Marta, the Andorian and the Tellarite
Marta said: Why can't I blow off just one of his ears?
Garth said: Stop that, Marta. Mister Spock will think we're lacking in hospitality. Won't you join us, Captain?
He lets Kirk out of the cell
Kirk said: How are you, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Very well indeed, thank you, Captain.
Kirk said: Isn't Governor Cory joining us?
Garth said: No, the governor doesn't seem to be on the guest list.
Kirk said: An oversight?
Garth said: An intentional one. The governor's fasting.
Kirk said: In that case, we must decline with thanks.
Garth said: (draws a weapon) Captain.
Cory said: Don't be a fool, Jim. Go along with him.
Garth said: Good advice, Governor. Well, Captain? You'll find we set a handsome table, and the entertainment is most enjoyable.
Kirk said: You're very persuasive.
Garth said: Yes, I am. I certainly am.
Scene: Dining room.
Other inmates are also there. The current entertainment is the Andorian and Tellarite playing 'wheelbarrow'. When they've finished, Marta goes over to Kirk and starts fondling him.
Garth said: Keep your hands off Kirk! You treacherous thing!
Marta said: You're jealous!
Garth said: I am above that sort of thing. The Captain is annoyed by your attentions, that's all.
Marta said: Am I annoying you, dearest?
Kirk said: Not really.
Marta said: He finds me fascinating and you're bothered by it. Admit it.
Garth said: I may have you beaten to death.
Marta said: No, you won't, because I am the most beautiful woman on this planet.
Garth said: You're the only woman on this planet, you stupid cow.
Marta said: Well, I'm the most beautiful woman in this galaxy!
Garth said: You're repulsive!
Marta said: I'm beautiful! And I'm intelligent too. I write poetry, and I paint marvellous pictures. And I am a wonderful dancer.
Garth said: Lies! All lies! You are the greatest liar I have ever met! Let me hear one poem you've written.
Marta said: If you like.
Spock said: (muttering) If you could create a diversion, I might be able to find the control room and open the force field.
Kirk said: All we need is a few seconds, if Scotty has alerted the security detail.
Garth said: Gentlemen, courtesy for the performer.
Marta said: Shall I compare thee to a summer's day? Thou art more lovely and more temperate. Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May, and summer's lease hath all too soon
Garth said: You wrote that?
Marta said: Yesterday, as a matter of fact.
Garth said: It was written by an Earth man named Shakespeare a long time ago!
Marta said: Which does not alter the fact that I wrote it again yesterday! I think it's one of my best poems, don't you?
Garth said: I may kill you with my bare hands! (Marta runs to the other men) Actually, Captain, she is a superb dancer. Marta, my dear, won't you dance for our guests? That was not a request.
(Marta starts one of those sinuous Orion dances, although not as good as
Vina
.)
Garth said: Marvellous, isn't she, Captain?
Kirk said: Yes, er, incredible.
Garth said: What is your reaction, Mister Spock?
Spock said: I find it mildly interesting and somewhat nostalgic, if I understand the use of that word.
Garth said: Nostalgic?
Spock said: Yes. It is somewhat reminiscent of the dances that Vulcan children do in nursery school. Of course, the children are not so well co-ordinated.
Marta's dance brings her up close and personal with both Garth and Kirk.
Garth said: She's yours if you wish, Captain.
Kirk said: Oh, er, thank you. That's, er, very magnanimous of you.
Garth said: You'll find that I am magnanimous to my friends and merciless to my enemies, and I want you, both of you, to be my friends.
Spock said: On what, precisely, is our friendship to be based?
Garth said: Upon the firmest of foundations, Mister Spock. Enlightened self interest. You, Captain, are second only to me as the finest military commander in the galaxy.
Kirk said: That's very flattering. I am primarily an explorer now, Captain Garth.
Garth said: And so have I been. I have charted more new worlds than any man in history.
Kirk said: And tried to destroy Antos Four.
Spock said: Why?
Garth said: Well, I could say because they were actively hostile to the Federation.
Kirk said: Yes, you could say, but that would be untrue.
Garth said: Agreed. Actually they were quite harmless, and they made me whole when I was maimed and dying. And in my gratitude, I offered them the galaxy. They rejected me, and I condemned them to death.
Spock said: How could you, a Starship fleet Captain, believe that a Federation crew would blindly obey your order to destroy the entire Antos race, a people famous for their benevolence and peaceful pursuits?
Garth said: That was my only miscalculation. I had changed. I had risen above this decadent weakness which still has you in its command, by the way, Captain. My crew had not. I couldn't sway them, but my new crew, the men in this room, will obey my orders without question. Gentlemen, you have eyes but you cannot see. Galaxies surround us, limitless vistas. And yet the Federation would have us grub away like some ants on some somewhat larger than usual anthill. But I am not an insect. I am master of the universe, and I must claim my domain.
Kirk said: I agree there was a time when war was necessary, and you were our greatest warrior. I studied your victory at Axanar when I was a cadet. In fact it's still required reading at the Academy.
Garth said: As well it should be.
Kirk said: Very well. But my first visit to Axanar was as a new fledged cadet on a peace mission.
Garth said: Peace mission! Politicians and weaklings!
Kirk said: They were humanitarians and statesmen, and they had a dream. A dream that became a reality and spread throughout the stars, a dream that made Mister Spock and me brothers.
Garth said: Mister Spock, do you consider Captain Kirk and yourself brothers?
Spock said: Captain Kirk speaks somewhat figuratively and with undue emotion. However, what he says is logical and I do, in fact, agree with it.
Garth said: Blind! Truly blind! Captain Kirk is your commanding officer and you are his subordinate. That is all. Yet, Mister Spock, you are a worthy commander in your own right, and in my fleet, you will surely have a Starship to command.
Spock said: Please forgive me, but exactly where is your fleet?
Garth said: Out there waiting for me. They will flock to my cause, and for good reason. Limitless power, limitless wealth, and solar systems ruled by the elite. We, gentlemen, are that elite, and we must take what is rightfully ours from the decadent weaklings that now hold it.
Spock said: Captain Garth
Garth said: Lord Garth!
Spock said: As you wish. At any rate, you must be aware of the fact that you are attempting to recreate the disaster which resulted in your becoming an inmate in this place.
Garth said: I was betrayed and treated barbarically.
Spock said: On the contrary. You were treated with justice, and with compassion which you failed to show towards any of your intended victims. Logically, therefore, one must assume
Garth said: Remove this animal!
Spock is hauled away, and Garth draws his phaser as Kirk stands. Then he becomes friendly again.
Garth said: Try some of this wine, Captain. It has a robust, full bodied flavour which you'll find diverting.
Kirk said: No thank you. I prefer to join Mister Spock.
Garth said: And I prefer that you remain here. Marta, my dear. We found your little divertissement enchanting, didn't we, Captain? But there's more to come. The entertainment has merely begun. By the way, I assume you play chess.
Kirk said: Occasionally.
Garth said: So do I. How would you respond to queen to queen's level three?
Kirk said: I'm sure you're aware that there are an infinite number of countermoves.
Garth said: I'm interested in only one.
Kirk said: I can't for the life of me imagine which one.
Garth said: For the life of me is a phrase well chosen. It could literally come to that.
Kirk said: Dead I am of no use to you.
Garth said: But I can make you long for death, beg for death.
Marta said: In the midnight of November, when the dead man's fare is nigh, and the danger in the valley, and the anger in the sky. I wrote that this morning. Do you like it?
Kirk said: Yes, I think it's very good.
Marta said: Tell him what he wants to know and we'll go away together.
Kirk said: I can't.
Marta said: But you must. I beg of you.
Garth said: Oh, don't beg, Marta! It's degrading. Queen to queen's level three, Captain. You'll talk freely and quite soon.
A chunky chair is wheeled into the room.
What you see before you, Captain, is my latest invention. Quite ordinary in appearance, almost primitive, wouldn't you say?
Kirk said: Yes, I recognise it. It's used for rehabilitation purposes.
Cory said: It helped many men back to health.
Garth said: Appearances can be deceiving. Once it was a part of the rehabilitation process, and as such, quite painless. And I might add useless too. It made men docile and of no use to me. I've added certain refinements to the use of ultrasonic waves. The chair is no longer painless. Put the governor in it. Queen to queen's level three, Captain Kirk? It is, in fact, exquisitely painful, as you will now see.
The lights either side of Cory's head, swirl, and he begins to pant and groan.
Garth said: Interesting, isn't it? The pain is real and can be prolonged indefinitely, because there is no actual destruction of tissue.
Kirk said: Stop it!
Garth turns it off.
Garth said: Of course, Captain. You have but to ask. Now, as you can see, he has not been harmed physically, yet the memory of the exquisite torment remains. Queen to queen's level three, Captain.
Kirk said: No.
Garth said: Too bad. Remove our distinguished governor. Put Captain Kirk in the chair.
Kirk tries to make a break for it, but fails.
Marta said: No, you mustn't do that!
Garth said: You really are becoming offensive to me, my dear. Don't make it necessary for me to put you in it. Queen to queen's level three, Captain Kirk.
Marta said: Please, stop it!
Garth said: You want him, don't you?
Marta said: Yes.
Garth said: Badly enough to join him?
Marta said: Listen to me, my Lord Garth. I can get him to tell me what you want to know.
Garth said: It might be interesting to have you try.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: No breakthrough?
Uhura said: No, Mister Scott. Still no response from the planet.
Scott said: Sensor readings?
Sulu said: The force field is weakest on the far side of the planet. We can send down a shuttlecraft carrying a team in environmental suits.
Mccoy said: It won't work, Scotty. They'd have to cover thousands of miles through poisonous atmosphere before they'd ever reach the asylum.
Scott said: Aye, you're right. Even if they made it, they couldn't carry anything powerful enough to break through the asylum dome. Only the ship herself could do that.
Mccoy said: Probably kill Jim and Spock.
Scot said: Doctor, they may already be dead.
Scene: Room.
In an orange room, Marta gently gives the waking Kirk a drink of water.)
Marta said: Slowly, darling, slowly. Rest.
Kirk said: Is this more of Garth's persuasion, Marta?
Marta said: I told him I'd discover your secret. I lied. I would have told him anything to save you from that torment.
Kirk said: I believe you mean that.
Marta said: I do. (kisses him) This is where I've longed to be. I think I knew I loved you from the moment I first saw you.
Kirk said: Marta. Marta, I can help you, but I must get to the Enterprise to do that.
Marta said: That's not possible.
Kirk said: Yes, it is. It is if I can get to the control room and remove the force field, then Garth is finished.
Marta said: Garth is my leader.
Kirk said: He will lead you to destruction. He's already destroyed the medicine that could have helped you. But there's more medicine aboard the ship.
Marta said: I'll help you, but you must wait. You do see that, don't you? Soon your friend Spock will be here and then
Kirk said: Spock?
Marta said: At least I've arranged that much.
Kirk said: How did you manage that?
Marta said: A convincing lie told to a guard who finds me desirable. Darling.
She kisses him again, then reaches under the pillow for a dagger. Kirk disarms her, she crawls after the blade and Spock arrives.
Marta said: No, you mustn't stop me. He's my lover and I have to kill him.
Spock neck-pinches her.
Spock said: She seems to have worked out an infallible method for assuring permanent male fidelity. Interesting.
Kirk said: I'm very glad to see you.
Spock said: Thank you, Captain. (draws a phaser) We're now armed. I presume we shall try to reach the control room.
Kirk said: Yes, you presume correctly.
They head along the corridor, until they see a Tellarite standing guard. Spock stuns him. Kirk takes his weapon and they head into the control room.
Scene: Control room.
Spock said: Force field is now off, Captain.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Kirk to Enterprise.
Uhura said: Mister Scott, it's the captain.
Scott said: Scott here, Captain.
Scene: Control room.
Scott said: You had us worried.
Kirk said: Mister Scott, I want a fully armed security detail beamed down here on the double.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: They're already in the transporter room, sir.
Scene: Control room.
Kirk said: And have Doctor McCoy prepare additional medicine as quickly as possible.
Scott said: Aye, aye, sir.
Spock said: Captain, I suggest you return to the ship at once. Your safety is vital to the Enterprise.
Scott said: Waiting for your order, Captain.
Spock said: I also request permission to remain here in charge of the security team when they beam down.
Kirk said: Very well, Spock.
Scott said: Still waiting, Captain.
Spock said: Mister Scott, the Captain's life is in immediate danger. Beam him aboard at once. The security team will be entrusted to me.
Scott said: Queen to queen's level three. Repeat. Queen to queen's level three.
Spock said: He's waiting for the proper reply, Captain.
Scott said: Give the countersign as ordered.
Kirk said: Scotty, Mister Spock will give the countersign.
Spock said: Give him the countersign, Captain.
Scott said: Security detail, standby to beam down.
Spock reactivates the forcefield and turns into Garth.
Garth said: Blast away, Captain, if you can. Do you think I'm fool enough to give you a charged phaser?
Kirk said: What have you done with Spock? Where is he?
Garth said: I have done nothing with him as of yet, but I do have plans for him. The Vulcan will die rather horribly, and his death will be on your conscience.
Kirk said: Captain Garth
Garth said: Lord Garth!
Kirk said: No, sir. Captain Garth, Starship fleet Captain. That's an honourable title.
Garth said: And I was the greatest of them all, wasn't I?
Kirk said: Yes, you were. Yes. But you're a sick man now, sir.
Garth said: I have never been more healthy.
Kirk said: No. No, think. Think back to what you were before the accident that sent you to Antos Four. Try.
Garth said: I can't remember. It's almost as if I had died and was reborn.
Kirk said: No, I, I can remember. You were the finest student at the Academy, the finest Starship Captain. You were the prototype, the model for the rest of us.
Garth said: Yes, I do remember that. It was a great responsibility, but one I was proud to bear.
Kirk said: And you bore it well. And the disease that changed you, it's not your fault. And the terrible things you did since then, not truly responsible.
Garth said: I don't want to hear any more. You're weak, you're trying to drain my strength.
Kirk said: No, I'm not. I want you to find what you once had. I want you to go back to the greatness that you've lost, Captain Garth.
Garth said: I am Lord Garth! Master of the universe! You doubt me only because I have not as yet had my coronation.
Kirk said: No, sir, listen to me. I
Garth said: Stop! On your knees.
Kirk said: No.
Garth said: On your knees before me! All the others before me have failed. Alexander, Caesar, Napoleon, Hitler, Lee Kuan, Krotus! All of them are dust! But I will triumph! I will make the ultimate conquest!
Kirk reaches for the forcefield control and gets stunned for his efforts.
Scene: Dining room.
The tables are being rearranged.
Garth said: The throne must be higher. It must be higher than anything else in this room. Use that table as a pedestal. Ah, welcome back, Captain Kirk. I'm glad you could make it for the coronation.
Kirk said: Coronation?
Garth said: Yes. Oh, I know that even a real throne is no more than merely a chair, but the symbolism is important, don't you agree?
Kirk said: Yes, I agree. You'll wear a crown too, I presume?
Garth said: But again, just as a token. Not impressive in itself, but it will serve as a standard around which our followers will rally.
Kirk said: Garth, you have only a handful of men.
Garth said: You do refuse to enter into the spirit of the thing, don't you, Captain? Perhaps you'd like a larger role in the ceremony. You could serve as human sacrifice, for example.
Kirk said: No, I wouldn't enjoy that at all. Besides, you seem to need me alive.
Garth said: How true. All right, how about crown prince? That would make you our heir apparent. Heir apparent, I believe, is the proper role for you. Besides, we have other candidates for our human sacrifice. Who knows? Ready.
(Garth goes out and comes in again with Marta on his arm. She carries a crown on a pillow. They walk between two lines of inmates, who kneel.
Garth said: Well, since there is no one mighty enough to perform this ceremony, we'll perform it ourselves. Therefore, we hereby proclaim that I am Lord Garth, master of the universe. And we designate our beloved Marta to be our consort. And we further designate Captain James Kirk of the Starship Enterprise to be our heir apparent.
Garth walks up and down, then climbs up onto the table and sits on the chair.
Garth said: Now remove our heir apparent that we may conclude this ceremony.
Kirk is led out into the corridor by the Andorian and the Tellarite.
Scene: Control room.
Kirk said: Listen to me. This may be our last chance. Garth will destroy all of us unless you help me stop him. And he's using you, you know that, because he wants the power for himself. I brought something that might have cured you, but he destroyed it. If I can get a patrol down, they'd bring more of that medicine and
Kirk tries to switch off the forcefield and gets hits for his effort. Garth enters.
Garth said: Well done. Well, Captain, you continue to resist. How stupid of you. Put him in that chair right here. I've arranged a small entertainment. I wouldn't want him to miss any of it. Well, Captain, even you must admit that I'm a genius. What you see here is my latest invention. This is an explosive, the most powerful one in history. If I were to drop this flask, the resulting explosion would vaporise this planet. Now do you see why it is ridiculous to resist me? Well, perhaps you require the demonstration I've arranged. Watch closely.
Shutters open to show the planet surface on a screen.
Garth said: Now, it is true that she is deadly as a poisonous serpent, but she is also a beautiful woman, and you have held her in your arms, Captain. I've ordered my men to drive her out of the protective dome. And, of course, she would choke to death on the outside in minutes.
On the screen, Marta is struggling against two figures in environment suits.
Garth said: But I've arranged a more merciful end for her because after all, Captain, she is my consort. One tiny crystal implanted in her necklace, a portion of this explosive no bigger than a grain of sand. I propose to detonate it from here.
Marta is left alone, choking.
Garth said: Poor girl. Poor, dear, suffering child. I will help her now.
Boom!
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: There's been an explosion on Elba Two!
Scott said: Point nine five!
Mccoy said: It must've wiped out everything.
Scott said: Immediate probe. Is the force field in place, Mister Sulu?
Sulu said: Yes, sir. Solidly.
Uhura said: (at Spock's station) Life continues to exist on the planet.
Mccoy said: Got to break through it somehow.
Scott said: Doctor, I told you we couldn't do it without killing everyone in the asylum dome.
Mccoy said: I know it, Scotty.
Scott said: Well, there's one last thing we might try. Perhaps the ship's phasers can cut through a section of the force field at its weakest point. Where did you say that was located, Mister Sulu?
Sulu said: On the far side of the planet, Mister Scott.
Mccoy said: Will it leave a margin of safety for the people below?
Sulu said: Yes, sir.
Scott said: Prepare to change orbital path, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Orbital co-ordinates released, sir.
Scott said: Break synchronous orbit. Come to course one four mark six eight.
after a few moments
Sulu said: Course one four mark six eight. Synchronous orbit re-established, sir.
Scott said: Ship's phasers to narrow beam.
Sulu said: Ship's phasers ready, sir.
Scott said: Let's punch a hole in it. Full power. Another blast, full power.;
Sulu said: Force field still holding, sir.
Scene: Control room.
Garth said: Here.
Throws the flask of explosive to the Andorian, then snatches it back.
Garth said: How are your nerves, Kirk?
Kirk said: All I can say, Garth, if it happens to me, it happens to you.
Garth said: You're an extraordinary fellow, Kirk. Your stubbornness defies all logic. Logic, that is the key. Your friend Spock is a logical man. A very logical man. Go and bring the Vulcan here to me.
Spock is in a detention cell, calmly testing the forcefield in the doorway. When the Andorian and Tellarite arrive, he is lying on the floor. They have to pick him up and carry him between them. Once in the corridor, he neck-pinches the pair of them, takes a phaser and heads off on his own.
Garth said: Spock is not only a more logical man than you, Captain, but a more intelligent one, I'm sure. I shall establish a rapport with him.
An alarm alerts him to the approach of the Vulcan.
Garth said: Fascinating. Your Vulcan friend is a very ingenious fellow. This could be most amusing.
When the control room doors open for Spock, two Captain Kirks are standing in the room.
Kirk 1 said: (to Spock's left) That's Garth, stun him.
Kirk 2 said: (to Spock's right) Hold it, Spock. That's Garth.
Spock enters the room
Kirk 1 said: Look at me carefully, Spock. Can't you tell I'm your Captain?
Spock said: Queen to queen's level three.
Kirk 2 said: I won't answer that. That's exactly what he wants to know.
Kirk 1 said: Very clever, Garth. That's exactly what I was going to say.
Kirk 2 said: What are you doing?
Spock said: Arranging to beam down a security team. Are there any objections?
Kirk 1 said: Yes. They may walk into a trap.
Kirk 2 said: That's right. Garth can destroy us.
Spock said: Fascinating. What maneuver did we use to defeat the Romulan vessel near Tau Ceti?
Kirk 1 said: Very good, Spock. The Cochrane deceleration.
Kirk 2 said: Spock, you know the Cochrane deceleration's a classic battle maneuver. Every Starship Captain knows that.
Spock said: Agreed, Captain. Captains. Gentlemen, whichever one of you is Captain Garth must at this moment be expending a great deal of energy to maintain the image of Captain Kirk. That energy level cannot be maintained indefinitely, and I have time.
Spock pulls a chair towards him to sit down, and Kirk 2 attacks him. Then the two Kirk's wrestle each other. Finally one is holding the chair over the other's head, ready to smash it down on his helpless victim.
Kirk said: (with chair) I'm your Captain, Spock! Can't you tell? Shoot! Shoot!
Kirk said: (on floor) He's right, Spock. You must shoot, but shoot both of us. It's the only way to ensure the safety of the Enterprise.
Spock shoots the aggressive Kirk with the chair, who then turns back into Garth. Spock switches off the force field.
Spock said: Captain Kirk, I presume.
Kirk said: Mister Spock.
Spock said: Spock to Enterprise.
Scott said: Enterprise here. Queen to queen's level three.
Spock said: Queen to king's level one.
Scene: Treatment room.
The inmates are getting their jabs.
Cory said: Will intramuscular injection be satisfactory?
Mccoy said: Intravenous is indicated unless circumstances make it impossible.
Cory said: How long before it takes effect, Doctor McCoy?
Mccoy said: Reversal of arterial and brain damage should begin almost immediately.
Garth is having a treatment in the chair.
Kirk said: Captain Garth, I'm James Kirk.
Spock said: I am Mister Spock, science officer on a Starship.
Kirk said: The starship Enterprise.
Garth said: Starship. Starship.
Kirk said: Yes, sir, the Enterprise. I'm the captain. (Kirk and Garth shake hands) Can I help?
Garth said: No, Captain. The medicine seems to be taking effect. I can manage. It's very encouraging. Should I know you, sir?
Kirk said: No, Captain. No.
Kirk said: Mister Spock.
Spock said: Yes, Captain.
Kirk said: Tell me something. Why was it so impossible to tell the difference between us?
Spock said: It was not impossible, Captain. Our presence here is proof of that.
Kirk said: Yes, and congratulations. What took you so long?
Spock said: The interval of uncertainty was actually fairly brief, Captain. It only seemed long to you. I was waiting for a victor in the hand to hand struggle, which I assumed would be Captain Garth. Because of your depleted condition. Failing a resolution to the struggle, I was forced to use other means to make my determination.
Kirk said: I see. Mister Spock. Letting yourself be hit on the head, and I presume you let yourself be hit on the head, is not exactly a method King Solomon would have approved. Mister Scott, ready to beam up.
Scott said: Aye, aye, sir.