The Mark Of Gideon
Stardate: 5423.4
Original Airdate: 17 Jan, 1969
Captain's log, stardate 5423.4. We are orbiting the planet Gideon, which is still not a member of the United Federation of Planets. The treaty negotiations have been difficult because Gideon has consistently refused the presence of a delegation from the Federation on its soil, or any surveillance by the ship's sensors. They have finally agreed to a delegation of one. They insisted it be the Captain of the Enterprise. I am, therefore, beaming down at once.
Scene: Transporter room.
KIRK; It's too bad Gideon isn't cleared for general visitation, Mister Spock. According to the physio-cultural reports submitted to the Federation, it's a virtual paradise.
Spock said: I shall be interested in hearing your description, Captain.
Kirk said: You won't have long to wait.
Spock said: Lieutenant Uhura.
Uhura said: Yes, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Do we have final clearance from Gideon?
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Yes, Mister Spock. They have provided us with the co-ordinates for beam down.
Scene: Transporter room.
Spock said: May I have them, please?
Uhura said: Eight seven five.
Spock said: Eight seven five.
Uhura said: Zero two zero.
Spock said: Zero two zero.
Uhura said: Zero seven nine.
Spock said: Zero seven nine.
Kirk said: Let's go, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Energising.
Kirk dematerialises, then re-appears - in an empty transporter room.
Kirk said: Mister Spock? (goes to intercom) Mister Spock. I have not yet transported down. Why did you leave your post before confirming transport? Mister Spock? Spock?
Scene: Bridge.
Completely deserted
Kirk said: Engineering?
Scene: Engineering.
Kirk said: Mister Scott? Scotty!
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura, report immediately. All bridge personnel, report immediately.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: Kirk to crew. Is anyone aboard?
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Sickbay? Doctor McCoy?
Scene: Sickbay.
Kirk said: Bones? Bones, answer me.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Bones. Still orbiting Gideon.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: I am alone on the Enterprise. I have searched every area of the ship and still cannot find a trace of the crew, or an indication of how its disappearance was managed. The one thing that is obvious is that I suffered a memory lapse, during which time I bruised my arm. It is causing me some irritation.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Gideon is contacting us, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Put it on the screen.
Uhura said: Aye, sir.
Five men sitting behind a slightly curved table. The central one speaks.
Hodin said: Captain Kirk, this is Ambassador Hodin. The council is still awaiting your arrival.
Spock said: This is Mister Spock, Ambassador Hodin. Captain Kirk was transported down minutes ago.
Hodin said: That's impossible.
Spock said: I transported him myself.
Hodin said: He never arrived.
Spock said: He was beamed directly to your council chambers. Please verify your co-ordinates.
Hodin said: Eight seven five, zero two zero, zero seven nine.
Chekov said: Co-ordinates confirmed.
Hodin said: We gave you the exact co-ordinates which should have brought Captain Kirk directly to this very room.
Spock said: I am not questioning that, sir.
Scene: Council chamber.
Hodin said: If he is not here, that is your own responsibility, Mister Spock, and that of your staff.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: I do not deny that, sir. I am not attempting to blame your personnel.
Hodin said: We are glad to hear that. We shall enter it into the records of this most unfortunate event.
Spock said: Your Excellency, even with intricate machinery as delicately balanced as ours, there is still a margin for error which must be dealt with.
Scene: Council chamber.
Spock said: It is possible that Captain Kirk materialised on some other part of Gideon.
Hodin said: Let us hope it was on dry land.
Scene: Bridge.
McCoy enters
Spock said: Your Excellency. May I cut right to the heart of the matter? I request permission to beam down to conduct a search for our captain.
Scene: Council chamber.
Hodin said: Permission denied.
Scene: Bridge.
Hodin said: Your Federation must be aware
Scene: Council chamber.
Hodin said: Of our jealous tradition of isolation from all contaminating contacts
Scene: Bridge.
Hodin said: With the violent nature of planets of other star systems.
Spock said: Your Excellency, the wars between opposing star systems no longer prevail in our galaxy. If you will grant permission
Hodin said: Of course, we shall institute a thorough search. In the meantime, Mister Spock, I suggest that you look to your machinery.
Transmission ends
Spock said: We must acknowledge once and for all that the purpose of diplomacy is to prolong a crisis.
Mccoy said: Well, what are we waiting for, Mister Spock? We're not diplomats.
Spock said: We are representatives of the Federation, Doctor.
Mccoy said: That doesn't mean we have behave like children and listen to some fool lecture by a diplomat!
Spock said: Unfortunately, diplomacy is the only channel available to us at the moment. The planet is shielded from our sensors, therefore we cannot scan it. Therefore we are unable to select co-ordinates. They must be provided by Gideon.
Chekov said: We should never have agreed to such restrictions.
Spock said: We did not, Mister Chekov. The Federation did. Lieutenant Uhura.
Uhura said: Yes, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Contact Starfleet immediately. Explain our problem. Request permission to use every means at our disposal to press the search for Captain Kirk.
Uhura said: At once, sir.
Chekov said: Are there any other possibilities?
Spock said: There are endless, Mister Chekov.
Mccoy said: Well, where do we start, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Institute a sensor scan three hundred and sixty degrees, one degree at a time.
Mccoy said: You mean you're going to scan space for him?
Sulu said: But, sir, that could take years.
Spock said: Then the sooner you begin, the better.
Sulu said: Aye, sir.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk is checking each room when he sees a young woman walking backwards from a junction, arms outstretched as she almost dances.
Kirk said: Who are you?
Odona said: Odona. Yes, my name is Odona. Why did you bring me here?
Kirk said: What are you doing on my ship?
Odona said: Is this entire ship yours?
Kirk said: Not my personal property, but I'm the captain.
Odona said: And you have it all to yourself?
Kirk said: It seems, at the moment, we have it all to ourselves.
He grabs her arm.
Odona said: You're hurting me, Captain
Kirk said: Kirk. I'm sorry. James Kirk. And I didn't bring you here.
Odona said: If you didn't bring me
Kirk said: That's right. Who has brought you here?
Odona said: I don't know.
Kirk said: You? What happened before you came here? Try to remember. It's important.
Odona said: It seems I was standing in a, yes. I was standing in a large auditorium crowded with people. Thousands pressed in against me. I could hardly breathe. I was fighting for oxygen, screaming to get out.
Kirk said: Don't be afraid.
Odona said: I'm not, but you are troubled.
Kirk said: I seem to be the only one of my crew left on board the Enterprise. Four hundred and thirty, and I, apparently, am the only one left.
Odona said: I'm sorry. I wish I could help.
Kirk said: Maybe you can. Tell me the rest. You were fighting for oxygen, screaming to get out of there.
Odona said: And then I, suddenly I was here on this, on your ship. And there was all this space. And the freedom. I just wanted to float. And then there you were.
Kirk said: How long have you been aboard the Enterprise?
Odona said: I don't know. Not long. Is it important?
Kirk said: It might be. Come with me.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Lieutenant Uhura, has Starfleet honoured our request with a reply?
Uhura said: There has been no response as yet, sir.
Spock said: Did you advise them the captain's life is at stake?
Uhura said: Yes, sir. They insist that the matter must be referred to the Federation.
Spock said: What department?
Uhura said: Bureau of Planetary Treaties.
Spock said: Contact them directly.
Uhura said: I did, Mister Spock. They insist that we must go through Starfleet channels.
Sulu said: With the captain lost, sir, that's the best they could come up with?
Spock said: Diplomats and bureaucrats may function differently, but they achieve exactly the same results.
Scene: Empty Bridge.
Kirk checks the ship's chronometer on the helm/navigation console- it reads 9h 28m 29s
Kirk said: Nine minutes of my life has been lost.
Odona said: I don't understand.
Kirk said: Between the time I tried to beam down to Gideon and the time I found myself here alone, nine minutes have disappeared just like that. Now what happened during those minutes?
Odona said: What is Gideon?
Kirk said: That's your home. The planet that you come from.
Odona said: Is it?
Kirk said: It must be.
Odona said: Gideon? I don't know any Gideon.
Kirk said: That's impossible. We were in synchronous orbit over the capital city of Gideon. I tried to beam down, something happened, and you were beamed aboard from Gideon.
Odona said: I do not think so.
Kirk switches on the viewscreen, but instead of the deep orange planet, it shows a moving starfield.
Kirk said: We're no longer over Gideon.
Odona said: Where are we?
Kirk said: I don't know. I'm not familiar with that quadrant. Odona, you must realise that we're not here by accident. Some force, some intelligence has arranged this for a purpose.
Odona said: Captain, before I said I wasn't afraid. Now I am.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: The ambassador will speak, sir. They're requesting visual communication.
Scene: Council chamber.
Hodin said: Good news. Very good news indeed, Mister Spock. Your captain is definitely not on Gideon. As you requested, we made a most thorough search, and you will be relieved to know that you may now investigate all the other possibilities and forget about Gideon.
Spock said: But that is not what we requested.
Hodin said: You requested a most thorough search. It is in the record. And we have used every means at our disposal to accommodate you.
Spock said: Your record on the subject is not precise, Your Excellency.
Hodin said: Surely, Mister Spock, you do not intend, I hope, to create a dispute between the Federation and Gideon?
Spock said: Your Excellency, a dispute is the farthest thing from our minds, and there's no need to check your records. I merely suggest that the language of our statement may not have been understood exactly as intended.
Hodin said: Mister Spock, you're an officer of a spaceship. In your profession, you use many instruments, tools and weapons to achieve your objectives.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: True, Your Excellency.
Hodin said: However, the only tool diplomacy has is language.
Scene: Council chamber.
Hodin said: It is of the utmost importance that the meaning be crystal clear.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Your Excellency, I am basically a scientist. Clarity of formulation is essential in my profession also.
Scene: Council chamber.
Hodin said: I'm glad to hear it. Perhaps you could then make greater effort to choose your words more precisely.
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: Are you going to let him get away with that?
Scott said: No matter what you say, Mister Spock, he'll twist your meaning.
Uhura said: Yes, he's infuriating, sir. How can you stand it?
Mccoy said: We do not leave without being absolutely sure ourselves that everything has been done.
Scene: Council chamber.
Mccoy said: Now certainly you understand our feelings about that.
Hodin said: Mister Spock! Mister Spock!
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Yes, Your Excellency.
Scene: Council chamber.
Hodin said: Are you still there?
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Yes, Your Excellency.
Scene: Council chamber.
Hodin said: There was considerable interference with your transmission. A lot of noise drowned out
Scene: bridge.
Hodin said: What was said. Would you repeat, please?
Spock said: I apologise for the noise, your Excellency. To summarise, I request permission to transport down to Gideon.
Scene: Council chamber.
Hodin said: Forgive me, Mister Spock. No criticism of your equipment was intended. But it has sent your captain on some strange journey, a safe one we all still hope.
Scene: Bridge.
Hodin said: But it could create for us serious incidents with your Federation, and now you propose to
Scene: Council chamber.
Hodin said: Repeat this disaster with another officer? This would be madness.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: I'll not take that, Mister Spock. That transporter was in perfect condition. I guarantee that myself. Transport me down right this minute, and I'll prove to those gentlemen.
Spock said: Mister Scott, you'll go to the transporter room and await my orders.
Scott said: Aye, Mister Spock.
Scott leaves, muttering
Hodin said: I could not quite make that out, Mister Spock.
Scene: Council chamber.
Hodin said: Would you be so good as to repeat what you said?
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Yes, Your Excellency. The ship's engineer was explaining that the malfunction, which did exist, has now been repaired. We would appreciate an opportunity to test the equipment. I, therefore, request permission
Scene: Council chamber.
Spock said: To beam down to your council chamber.
Hodin said: But, Mister Spock, you
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Your Excellency, grant this one request.
Scene: Council chamber.
Hodin said: You are a very persistent fellow, Mister Spock. Very well, then, You shall test the skill of your very excitable
Scene: Bridge.
Hodin said: Repairman.
Scene: Council chamber.
Hodin said: There is one proviso. We cannot risk further incidents. You will therefore transport a member of my staff to your ship. Let us first see if that works.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Thank you, Your Excellency. Your proposal is accepted. Mister Scott.
Scott said: Scott here.
Spock said: Prepare to beam aboard a representative of the Gideon council.
Scott said: Aye, aye, sir.
Scene: Council chamber.
Hodin said: My assistant will provide you with the proper, what is the word?
Spock said: Co-ordinates.
Hodin said: Thank you. Proceed, Krodak.
Krodak said: (standing) Eight seven five.
Scott said: Eight seven five.
Krodak said: Zero two zero.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Zero two zero.
Scene: Transporter room.
Krodak said: Seven zero nine.
Scott said: Seven zero nine. Energising.
Krodak disappears from the bridge viewscreen and appears in the transporter room
Scott said: Mister Spock, the gentleman from Gideon is here.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Your Excellency, your assistant has arrived safely, and I am now ready to transport down to Gideon.
Hodin said: Now, now, not so fast, Mister Spock. That is quite a different matter. We agreed to allow one representative on our soil, your captain.
Spock said: Sir, our captain is still missing, and I now demand that I be allowed to transport to Gideon as we agreed.
Hodin said: Forgive me, Mister Spock, but I overstepped my authority when I made that agreement. However, your request will be taken up at the next full session of Gideon's council.
Transmission ends
Spock said: Mister Scott, beam down the gentleman from Gideon.
SCOTT; Yes, Mister Spock. I'm sending him straight to the same co-ordinates.
Mccoy said: Just when I was beginning to think you might find a whole new career as a diplomat, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Do not give up hope. Lieutenant Uhura, contact Starfleet Command. Demand an immediate reply to our request for permission to beam down to Gideon.
Uhura said: Yes, Mister Spock. Enterprise to Starfleet Command. Enterprise to Starfleet Command.
Scene: Empty Bridge.
Kirk said: Enterprise to Starfleet Command. Enterprise to Starfleet Command. Captain Kirk here. Red priority. Red priority.
Odona said: Isn't it in working order?
Kirk said: It seems to be.
Odona said: Then someone should have heard you.
Kirk said: Captain Kirk here. Please answer red priority. Please answer red priority. Well, if someone is listening, they're not answering.
Odona said: Why should they do that?
Kirk said: They wouldn't.
Kirk goes to the engineering station and swaps a couple of tapes over.
Odona said: What did you do?
Kirk said: Took the ship out of warp speed.
Odona said: Out of what?
Kirk said: Space terminology. We're no longer moving faster than the speed of light. I've trimmed down to sublight speed until we find out where we are.
Odona said: It feels the same.
Kirk said: Of course it does. Maybe it is the same.
Odona said: Well, has the ship slowed down?
Kirk said: (referring to viewscreen) If you believe that, we have.
Odona said: Oh, please! Don't tell me the sky is out of order now. It's so quiet. So peaceful.
Kirk said: It isn't really, you know.
Odona said: And it's beautiful.
Kirk said: Yes. Yes, it is. Very, very beautiful.
Odona said: And we're alone. Can you make it last a long, long time?
Kirk said: How long would you like it to last?
Odona said: Forever.
Kirk said: Well, let's see. Power, that's no problem, it regenerates. And food. We have enough to feed a crew of four hundred and thirty for five years. So that should last us
Odona said: Forever. All my life I've dreamed of being alone.
Kirk said: Most people are afraid of being alone.
Odona said: Where I come from, people dream of it.
Kirk said: Why? Why are the people of Gideon like that?
Odona said: Gideon? I told you, I don't know where I come from, what my planet is.
Kirk said: It might be Gideon.
Odona said: Does it matter so much?
Kirk said: Yes. It might help me pinpoint our location.
Odona said: And then you might find your crew. Being here with you, I forgot there must be others. I envy you your sense of loyalty. I want to ease your feeling of dread, your fear that all your crew no longer exists.
Kirk said: I've got to contact whoever is manipulating us. There must be a way. Odona. Odona, can you remember why your people dream of being alone?
Odona said: Because they never can be.
Kirk said: Why? What makes it so impossible to be alone?
Odona said: Because there are so many of us. So many. There is no place, no street, no house, no garden, no beach, no mountain that is not filled with people. Each one of us would kill in order to find a place alone to himself. They would willingly die for it, if they could.
Kirk said: Who sent you here?
Odona said: No one commands Odona. I was not sent here.
Kirk said: You've come to kill. Odona, have you come to die?
Odona said: I don't know. I don't care. I only know I'm here. I only know I'm happy.
They kiss, and dozens of faces appear on the viewscreen. They watch as Kirk leads Odona away.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: Now, all I have to do is find a medical kit, and I can completely cure this. (his arm)
Odona said: Cure?
Kirk said: Yes, the irritation would be gone.
Odona said: What will happen if you do not find one? Will you become sick and die?
Kirk said: No. Over something as simple as this? No, it'll cure itself eventually, but. Do you know, uh I don't even remember how this happened. Do you hear that?
Odona said: Yes, it sounds like an engine.
Kirk said: No, the ship's engines don't make that kind of sound.
Odona said: But there is something wrong with the equipment. Could that be it?
Kirk said: I know every sound that this ship might make. That's coming from outside.
Odona said: A storm might
Kirk said: A storm might, but you wouldn't be able to hear it. Come on.
Scene: Observation deck.
Kirk said: This is a viewing port. We'll be able to see outside. If there's a storm, we'll be able to see it.
Kirk presses a button, but the steel shutter does not raise
Kirk said: If it works.
uses a manual override, and the shutters slide open to reveal faces which are then replaced by a starfield.
Odona said: People. The faces of people. And then the stars. What's happening? What's out there? The sound is gone.
Kirk said: It was like the heartbeat of all those people, and thousands upon thousands more pressing against the ship.
Odona said: But you said we were moving through space.
Kirk said: Yes, I said that.
Odona said: Then the people can't be out there.
Kirk said: Yes, they can.
Odona said: Please don't frighten me.
Kirk said: It could be a mirage. They could exist in our minds.
Odona said: You mean that we're going mad.
Kirk said: Or some power is creating the illusion in our minds that we are somewhere near your planet. But why?
Odona said: I don't know. I don't know.
Kirk said: I think I have an idea. So that we won't keep trying to find out where we are, that we'll be content to stay here.
Odona said: Oh, be content!
Kirk said: Be content? Be content? Not until I find out what happened to my crew. Are they dead?
Odona said: I don't know.
Kirk said: Did you kill them so you could have the ship to yourself?
Odona said: Captain.
Scene: Council chamber.
Odona said: Captain, something's happening to me. I never felt like this before.
Kirk said: I've never felt like this before either.
Odona said: Is this the way one looks when one is developing a sickness?
Kirk said: There's no sickness on your planet, remember?
Odona said: Now there will be. There will be sickness. There will be death.
She passes out in his arms. The council members file out. Outside the window, a mass of people struggle to move towards their destination.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: Hodin.
Hodin said: Yes, Captain Kirk. Our experiment has passed the first stage.
Kirk said: Let me in there. I can help her.
Hodin said: We have no need of any of your medicines.
Kirk said: But she's ill.
Hodin said: And we're grateful to you for her illness. You have done well, my daughter.
Kirk hands Odona over to Hodin
Hodin said: Guard the captain well. We shall need him for a long time.
Scene: Bridge.
Admiral said: I sympathize deeply, but Starfleet cannot override Federation directives in this matter.
Spock said: Admiral, the crew will not understand it.
Admiral said: Has your crew suddenly become interested in provoking a war? That is not Starfleet's mission.
Spock said: We wish only to save the life of the captain.
Admiral said: You have not proved your case to the Federation, or to Starfleet, for that matter.
Spock said: I am positive that I can do so to your satisfaction, Admiral. I have been convinced, since my first exchange with the ambassador, that the captain has been taken prisoner.
Admiral said: Granted as fact, Mister Spock.;
Spock said: I now know where the captain is being held, if he is being held at the same place to which we transported him.
Admiral said: They would not dare harm him in the Gideon council chamber.
Spock said: Sir, the captain is not being held in the Gideon council chamber. He is being held nearby.
Admiral said: You have answered what and where. I'm waiting for your explanation of why.
Spock said: Since the planet is shielded from our sensors, we cannot establish that without on the spot investigation.
Admiral said: Do you have evidence the captain's life is threatened? Permission denied.
Spock said: Admiral, I wish to state for the record that your decision is completely arbitrary.
Admiral said: So noted.
Scene: Captain's quarters.
Odona said: Will it last long?
Hodin said: That depends on the strength of the one infected. You have great strength.
Odona said: How will you know when I am to die?
Hodin said: Your body temperature will be very great. You will see us, but you will not know who we are.
Odona said: I must see him before then, Father.
Hodin said: Rest. Now lie still. Do you feel great pain?
Odona said: Yes, in my arms and thighs.
Hodin said: What is it like to feel pain?
Odona said: It is like, like when you see the people have no hope for happiness, Father. You feel great despair, and your heart is heavy because you know you can do nothing. Pain is like that.
Hodin said: Your courage gives me great pride.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: Let me see her.
Hodin said: Not yet.
Kirk said: You don't know what she may have.
Hodin said: But we do. She has Vegan choriomeningitis.
Kirk said: It's very rare, and always fatal if not treated within twenty four hours. I know, it almost killed me.
Hodin said: Yes. Our prime minister learned about you during our negotiations. That's why we brought you here. Your blood provided the micro-organisms which infected her.
Kirk said: That's how my arm got hurt.
Hodin said: Yes. As Odona told you, we have no need for medical practitioners here. Our apologies. We were unforgivably awkward to have hurt you.
Kirk has a fight with his two guards, and loses.
Kirk said: You're mad.
Hodin said: No. We are desperate.
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: I don't understand how Starfleet can deny permission to beam down to search for the captain.
Spock said: They did not ask for our understanding, Doctor.
Scott said: I don't see how they expect us to sit here and wait for the captain to reappear.
Spock said: Unfortunately, I must violate a direct order from Starfleet.
Mccoy said: That's the best possible decision you could make, Spock. I'm with you.
Spock said: I do not make it lightly, Doctor. However, Command knows that Ambassador Hodin has not been totally honest with us. Lieutenant Uhura, repeat original Gideon co-ordinates for beam down.
Uhura said: Eight seven five, zero two zero, zero seven nine.
Spock said: Mister Scott, the co-ordinates given you?
Scott said: Eight seven five, zero two zero, seven zero nine.
Mccoy said: Co-ordinates don't match.
Spock said: Precisely. I shall beam down at once. Mister Scott, you have the conn.
Mccoy said: I'll pick up my medical tricorder and meet you in the transporter room.
Spock said: Negative, Doctor. I cannot accept the responsibility for ordering a fellow officer to violate a Starfleet directive. I can make such a decision only for myself.
Mccoy said: I'm not asking you to make the decision for me.
Spock said: The situation forces me to do so, Doctor.
Mccoy said: In that case, it's the worst possible decision you can make, Spock.
Spock said: This will not take long.
Spock leaves
Scott said: Isn't that just about what Captain Kirk said before he left?
Scene: Fake Transporter room.
Spock said: (into intercom) Captain Kirk. Spock here. Captain Kirk?
He goes out into the corridor, scanning with his tricorder.
Scene: Council chamber.
Kirk said: Your report to the Federation was a tissue of lies. You described environmental, physical, cultural conditions that would make Gideon a paradise.
Hodin said: And so it was! A long, long time ago what we described was true! The atmosphere on Gideon has always been germ-free. And the people flourished in their physical and spiritual perfection. Eventually, even the life span increased. Death became almost unknown to us. It occurred only when the body could no longer regenerate itself, and that happens now only to the very old.
Kirk said: Those are conditions most people would envy.
Hodin said: But Gideon did not find it enviable. The birth rate continued to rise, and the population grew, until now Gideon is encased in a living mass who can find no rest, no peace, no joy.
Kirk said: Then why haven't you introduced any of the new techniques to sterilise men and women?
Hodin said: Every organ renews itself. It would be impossible.
Kirk said: Then let your people learn about the devices to safely prevent conception. The Federation will provide anything you need.
Hodin said: But you see, the people of Gideon have always believed that life is sacred. That the love of life is the greatest gift. That is the one unshakable truth of Gideon. And this overwhelming love of life has developed our regenerative capacity and our great longevity.
Kirk said: And the great misery which you now face.
Hodin said: That is bitterly true, Captain. Nevertheless, we cannot deny the truth which shaped our evolution. We are incapable of destroying or interfering with the creation of that which we love so deeply. Life, in every form, from foetus to developed being. It is against our tradition, against our very nature. We simply could not do it.
Kirk said: Yet you can kill a young girl.
Hodin said: We're trying to re-adjust the life cycle of an entire civilisation.
Kirk said: You're killing your own daughter. How can you do that?
Hodin said: My daughter hoped to make you feel the agony of Gideon. But it was impossible. No stranger could realize the horror that life can be here. I will not beg for your understanding of my personal grief, nor will I parade it for you to gain your co-operation. My love for my daughter is too deep for display. My pride in her runs even deeper. My daughter freely chose to do what she is doing, as the people of Gideon are free to choose.
Kirk said: The virus you need is very rare. Who will provide it?
Hodin said: You will stay. Your blood will provide it.
Kirk said: No sir, not me. You have many methods available. I've mentioned only a few. I do not offer my life for this purpose. I have many plans, and I have hopes other than death for Odona.
Hodin said: My daughter pleaded with you to stay.
Kirk said: What was said and what happened between us was for us alone.
Hodin said: She hoped you would love her and wish to stay.
Kirk said: So that was your plan. That I would fall so under her spell that I would give up my freedom and become a willing sacrifice.
Hodin said: Stay with us. We're desperate.
Krodak said: Odona's fever is rising. She's calling the name of James Kirk.
Hodin said: You see, you cannot leave us now. Go to her.
Scene: Empty Bridge.
Spock said: An exact duplicate of the Enterprise. But completely inoperative. (into communicator) Spock to Enterprise. Spock to Enterprise.
Scott said: Scott here, Mister Spock.
Spock said: I am speaking to you from the bridge of the Enterprise.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: You're where?
Spock said: On the bridge of the Enterprise, Mister Scott.
Scott said: Those were the co-ordinates you insisted on.
Scene: Empty Bridge.
Spock said: And they were correct. I'm on board an exact duplicate of the Enterprise.
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: An exact duplicate of the Enterprise? Is it in orbit, Mister Spock?
Scene: Empty Bridge.
Spock said: In orbit, Doctor. In a manner of speaking, Gideon is in orbit and the ship is on Gideon.
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: Well, that's a beginning, but what about the captain?
Scene: Empty Bridge.
Spock said: I'm sure he's on board somewhere. I'm picking up life readings. Spock out.
Ship's log, stardate 5423.8. First Officer Spock reporting. Obviously the Gideon's have transported Captain Kirk onto this replica of the Enterprise to so confuse his mind as to make him susceptible to some extraordinary experiment. It is my intention to locate the captain and warn him before the experiment reaches its conclusion, which logic indicates means the end of the captain's life as he knows it.
Scene: Captain's quarters.
Kirk said: If you don't allow me to bring Doctor McCoy down here, it'll soon be too late to do anything for her.
Hodin said: We have told you, it is her wish and mine that there be no interference with the natural progress of the virus.
Kirk said: Her death is unnecessary. Even if she lives, her blood will provide the same serum you need as mine would.
Hodin said: No, her death at so young an age will let the people know for certain that our lifecycle can be changed. It's the symbol that'll bring forth the dedicated young volunteers. The serum in their new blood will change Gideon, and it will once more be the paradise it was.
Odona said: I'm glad that you are here. Is the time short?
Kirk said: Very short.
Odona said: And I asked you to make our journey last forever. Oh. It began here.
Kirk said: And it can continue. If only you'll allow me, I can cure you.
Odona said: I'm not afraid of what will happen, but it's just that now I wish with all my heart to stay with you forever.
She passes out
Outside in the corridor, Spock sneaks up on the two guards outside the 'Captain's quarters'. He neck pinches one, and throws the other along the corridor. Then he enters the room.
Spock said: Your Excellency. Captain, you're looking well. Evidently Starfleet's analysis was correct.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, we have a patient for Doctor McCoy. Have Scotty beam us up.
Spock said: Spock to Enterprise. Spock to Enterprise.
Scene: Bridge.
Scott said: Scott here.
Spock said: Three to beam up, Mister Scott.
Scene: Captain's quarters.
Scott said: Same co-ordinates?
Spock said: Negative. Lock in on my communicator signal. Your Excellency, please do not interfere. I already have one serious problem to resolve with upper echelons.
Spock, Kirk and Odona are beamed away.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: Well, that was close, but you made it.
Odona said: I am cured?
Mccoy said: Right. Just like the captain.
McCoy leaves
Odona said: Instead of smiling at me, you should be shouting in anger.
Kirk said: Why, because you're well again?
Odona said: No. Because I pretended to be (pause) How can you bear to look at me after the way I deceived you?
Kirk said: At least you owe me the privilege of letting me look at you.
Odona said: You are a gentleman, Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Thank you, ma'am.
Odona said: You are no longer needed on Gideon. I can take your place there.
Kirk said: Is that what you want to do?
Odona said: That is what I must do. I am needed there now.
Kirk said: You're needed everywhere, Odona.
Scene: Corridor.
Odona said: It is not like our ship.
Kirk said: Oh, yes, it is. It's exactly the same. Only this one works.
Odona said: It goes to many other planets?
Kirk said: Yes, it goes to the whole galaxy. With another difference. This one is crowded.
Odona said: It seems crowded to you?
Kirk said: It does now.
Crewmen pass by behind them
Odona said: Are you going to stay on the ship?
Kirk said: Yes, Odona, I have to.
Odona said: As crowded as my planet is, I could wish for it to hold one more person.
Kirk said: (into intercom) Kirk to transporter control. One to beam down to the planet Gideon.
Odona said: I will miss you, Captain James Kirk.