Charlie X
Stardate: 1533.6
Original Airdate: 15 Sep, 1966
Captain's Log, star date 1533.6. Now manoeuvring to come alongside cargo vessel Antares. Its Captain and First officer are beaming over to us with an unusual passenger.
Scene: Transporter room.
Kirk said: All right, Chief, begin materialisation. Captain Ramart, I'm Captain Kirk.
Ramart said: This is my navigator Tom Nellis.
Kirk said: How do you do?
Nellis said: How do you do?
Ramart said: And this is our young castaway Charlie, Charlie Evans. His dossier.
Kirk said: Mister Evans. We've heard a great deal about you. Welcome aboard.
Ramart said: Wonderful boy, Charlie. Its been an honour having him aboard.
Nellis said: Why, it's been a great pleasure. The things that he's learned in the last
Ramart said: Absolutely. To think this boy spent practically his whole life alone on that planet. Everyone killed, just a few microtapes to learn from.
Charlie said: How many humans like me on this ship?
Ramart said: Like a whole city in space, Charlie. Over four hundred in the crew of a starship, aren't there, Captain?
Kirk said: Four hundred and twenty eight, to be exact. Is there anything we can do for you, Captain? Medical supplies, provisions?
Charlie said: Hundreds. All human, like me. That's exciting. Is that the right word?
Nellis said: That's perfect. It's the exact word.
Ramart said: You see. We'd like to keep Charlie with us, but with his closest living relatives on Colony Five and your vessel going that way, why
Charlie said: I'd like to see your ship now. All of it. The people and everything.
Kirk said: You keep interrupting, Mister Evans. That's considered wrong.
Charlie said: I'm sorry.
Kirk said: We have a large supply of entertainment tapes, gentlemen.
Ramart said: No, we've a tight schedule to make, Captain. Just twenty of us, we're making out fine.
Kirk said: This must be a space first. A transport ship that doesn't need anything?
Ramart said: Nothing.
Kirk said: Not even Sarian brandy?
Ramart said: We're fine, thank you. Pleasant journey, Captain.
Kirk said: Thank you. (the pair are beamed off)
Kirk said: Yeoman Rand, this is Charles Evans. Show him to his quarters and drop his records off at Doctor McCoy's office, if you will.
Rand said: Yes, sir. Come with me, please.
Charlie said: Are you a girl? Is that a girl?
Kirk said: That's a girl.
Captain's Log, star date 1533.7. We have taken aboard an unusual passenger for transport to Colony Alpha Five. Charles Evans, the sole survivor of a transport crash fourteen years ago. The child, alone from age three, has not only survived, but has grown to intelligent, healthy adolescence.
Scene: Sickbay.
Mccoy said: Tell me. The ship's supply of food concentrates couldn't have lasted fourteen years.
Charlie said: After that I found other things to eat, just growing around.
Mccoy said: And you learned to talk by just listening to the ship's tapes?
Charlie said: The memory banks still worked. They talked to me, and I talked back.
Mccoy said: You're four-oh.
Charlie said: Four?
Mccoy said: Four-oh. One hundred percent. Sound of wind and limb.
Charlie said: That, that Captain. Kirk?
Mccoy said: Yeah.
Charlie said: Why does he call me Mister Evans?
Mccoy said: Because that's your name.
Charlie said: He's not, well, he isn't like Captain Ramart.
Mccoy said: Well, no. Captain Kirk is one of a kind, Charlie.
Charlie said: Do you like me?
Mccoy said: Why not?
Charlie said: Some, the other ship, they didn't like me. I tried. I'm trying to make people like me. I want them to like me.
Mccoy said: Most seventeen year olds do. Come on, let's go. I'll show you to your quarters.
Scene: Corridor.
Crewman 1 said: Hey, I'll put the equipment away. See you in the rec room, huh?
Crewman 2 said: You got a deal, friend. (slaps man on bottom)
Crewman 1 said: All right. (to Charlie) Hello.
Charlie said: I brought you a present.
A bottle of perfume.
Rand said: Oh, thank you. I really appreciate it, but, but I have to go. I'm on duty.
Charlie said: Do you like that kind?
Rand said: Yes, I, it's my favourite. Where did you get it? They don't have any in the ship's stores.
Charlie said: It's a present.
Rand said: I know, but where did? Gee, I'm late, Charlie. I really have to go.
Charlie said: Can't you stay and talk a little while?
Rand said: Look, I'm off duty at fourteen hundred. Why don't you join me in recreation room six, deck three.
Charlie said: You got a deal, friend. (slaps her bottom)
Rand said: Charlie!
Charlie said: I thought. Don't be angry. I didn't, I wanted.
Rand said: Charlie, you, you, you just don't go around slapping girls on the. It's okay, but er, just don't do it again.
Charlie said: Don't be angry.
Rand said: Look, why don't you tell Captain Kirk or Doctor McCoy what you did. They'll explain it to you. Okay?
Charlie said: I will.
Rand said: Okay.
Scene: Bridge.
Mccoy said: But tell me, what reason would he have to lie if there are Thasians?
Spock said: That is a very intriguing question. Scanners show no disturbances in this quadrant, Captain.
Kirk said: Good. Doctor McCoy, Mister Spock is working out
Uhura said: Excuse me, Captain. Status report.
Kirk said: Thank you. He's working out a training programme for Charlie Evans. Earth history, his own background, that sort of thing. I'd like you to give him the necessary medical orientation on the problems of, um, er, adolescence.
Mccoy said: Well, don't you think it'd be better for a strong father image like you? He already looks up to you.
Kirk said: The job is yours, Bones. Flattery will get you nowhere.
Spock said: Doctor, didn't the boy make any reference at all to Thasians?
Kirk said: Do you believe the legend, Mister Spock, that Thasians still exist on that planet in some form?
Spock said: Charlie's very existence proves in fact there must be some intelligent form of life on Thasus. He could not possibly have survived alone. The ship's food concentrates would have been exhausted in a year or so.
Mccoy said: By which time he would have been eating fruits, vegetables.
Spock said: Probes of Thasus indicate very little edible plant life.
Mccoy said: And probes have been known to be wrong, Spock.
Mccoy said: Doctor, are you speaking scientifically or emotionally?
Kirk said: Gentlemen, the fact is the boy is here and he's alive and he needs our help.
Mccoy said: And he needs a guide and he needs a father image, Jim.
Kirk said: Hmm. I'll depend on your astute abilities to supply him with that, or find him one.
Scene: Recreation room.
Spock is strumming his lyre when Uhura starts humming. Spock stops
Uhura said: I'm sorry. I did it again, didn't I.;
Spock smirks and Uhura begins playing again.;
Uhura said: (singing) Oh, on the starship Enterprise There's someone who's in Satan's guise Whose devil ears and devil eyes Could rip your heart from you. At first, his look could hypnotise And then his touch would barbarise His alien love could victimise And rip your heart from you. And that's why female astronauts, Oh, very female astronauts Wait terrified and overwrought To find what he will do. Oh, girls in space, be wary, be wary, be wary, Girls in space, be wary. We know not what he'll do.
Rand said: One more time!
Uhura said: (singing) Now from a planet out in space, there comes a lad, not commonplace. A-seeking out his first embrace. He's saving it for you. Oh, Charlie's our new darling, our darling, our darling. Charlie's our new darling. We know not what he'll do.;
Uhura suddenly loses her voice and the lyre makes no sound.
Charlie said: Want to see something? (puts three cards face down) Turn them over. (They have pictures of Rand on them)
Rand said: Well, how did you do that?
Charlie said: Oh, I can do a lot of card tricks. One of the men on the Antares showed me.;
The cards return to normal
Rand said: I don't believe this!;
Hhe lays out the aces, throws one over his shoulder, then Rand removes it from her cleavage
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: On Earth today, it's Thanksgiving. If the crew has to eat synthetic meat loaf, I want it to look like turkey. Charlie.
Charlie said: Captain? I'm supposed to ask you something. Why shouldn't I? I don't know how to explain it.
Kirk said: Say it right out, Charlie. That usually works.
Charlie said: Well, in the corridor I saw. When Janice, when Yeoman Rand was. (slaps Kirk's bottom) I did that to her. She didn't like it. She said you'd explain it to me.
Kirk said: Me. I see. Well, um, er, there are things you can do with a lady, er, Charlie, that you er. There's no right way to hit a woman. I mean, man to man is one thing, but, er, man and woman, er, it's, er, it's, er. Well it's, er, another thing. Do you understand?
Charlie said: I don't know.
Uhura said: Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Excuse me. Kirk here.
Uhura said: Captain Ramart of the Antares is on D channel.
Kirk said: I'm on my way to the Bridge now.
Charlie said: Can I come with you?
Kirk said: I don't think so, Charlie.
Charlie said: I won't get in the way.
Kirk said: Okay.
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Can you boost your power, Antares. We're barely reading your transmission.
Ramart said: We're at full output, Enterprise. I must speak to Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Kirk here, Captain Ramart.
Ramart said: Captain, we're just barely in range. I've got to warn
Kirk said: Re-establish contact.
Uhura said: They're not transmitting.
Kirk said: Keep trying.
Charlie said: It wasn't very well constructed.
Kirk said: Sweep the area of the Antares transmission with our probe scanners, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Affirmative, Captain.
Kirk said: You think something happened to the Antares, Charlie?
Charlie said: I don't know.
Spock said: Picking up some debris on our scanners, Captain.
Kirk said: What about the Antares?
Spock said: The debris is what's left of the Antares.
Chef said: Captain Kirk from ship's Galley.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Chef said: Sir, I put meat loaf in the ovens. There's turkeys in there now. Real turkeys.
Kirk said: Chief, have you been;
Charlie laughs and leaves.
Captain's Log, star date 1535.8. UESPA headquarters notified of the mysterious loss of science probe vessel Antares.
Scene: Recreation room.
Kirk and Spock are playing 3D chess
Spock said: Your mind is not on the game, Captain. Check. The Antares?
Kirk said: A survey ship with twenty men aboard lost. No reason. Obviously, Captain Ramart was not aware of any trouble. I can't figure it.
Spock said: My own concern is more immediate. The boy.
Kirk said: I can usually follow you, Mister Spock, but this time?
Spock said: He seemed to know what happened to the Antares before we did.
Kirk said: I'd call it a pretty long reach for evidence, Mister Spock. Come in, Charlie.
Spock said: And again, check.
Kirk said: Checkmate.
Spock said: Your illogical approach to chess does have its advantages on occasion, Captain.
Kirk said: I prefer to call it inspired.
Spock said: As you wish. At any rate, the game is yours.
Kirk said: You play chess, Charlie?
Charlie said: Oh, I, I watched them play on the Antares. Can I try?
Kirk said: I place you in the hands of our chess master.;
Kirk gets up and leaves
Spock said: The principles of three-dimensional chess are basically mathematic, Charlie. You put the white here and the black on the secondary level.
Charlie said: I know what it is. Let's play.
Spock said: Very well. (just three moves later) That was a mistake, Charlie.
Charlie said: No, it wasn't.
Spock said: Checkmate.
Charlie said: No, it isn't.
Spock said: If you'll excuse me.;
Spock leaves. Charlie melts the white chess pieces.
Scene: Corridor.
Rand said: Oh, Charlie. I was looking for you. I'd like you to meet Tina Lawton, Yeoman Third Class. Charlie Evans.
Tina said: Hello, Charlie.
Rand said: I thought you might enjoy meeting someone your own age.
Charlie said: Can I talk to you, alone.
Rand said: Charlie, Tina's
Tina said: Excuse me. I must be wanted somewhere.
Rand said: That was, that was rude and completely uncalled-for.
Charlie said: But I don't need her. I want to talk to you.
Rand said: That's no excuse. You'd better learn that right now. You have to live with people, Charlie. You're not alone anymore.
Charlie said: But she's not as. She doesn't. She's not the same. Not like you. She's, she's just a girl. You're, you smell like a girl. All the other girls on the ship they, they look just like Tina. You're the only one who looks like you. You can understand, can't you? You know about being with somebody? Wanting to be? If I had the whole universe I'd give it to you. When I see you, I feel like I'm hungry all over. Hungry. Do you know how that feels?
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: What?
Rand said: I wasn't sure I should, er, talk to you about this.
Kirk said: Charlie's a seventeen year old boy.
Rand said: Exactly, and he's
Kirk said: I talked to him about the swat.
Rand said: It's not that. Captain, I've seen the look before, and if something isn't done, sooner or later I'm going to have to hurt him. Tell him to leave me alone, and that wouldn't be good for him right now. You see, I'm his first crush, his first love, and his first
Kirk said: Yes, Yeoman, I'll talk to him. I'll look into it.
Rand said: Thank you, sir.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Kirk said: Come in, Charlie. Er, Charlie. Charlie, do you know anything about this chess piece? Did you notice anything peculiar in them when we were using them this afternoon?
Charlie said: No, sir. Is that all?
Kirk said: Er, no. No, no. Sit down. Charlie, being seventeen is more than how many years you've lived. It's a whole other thing. Doctor McCoy could probably explain the biological conditions. Well, let's, let's use a specific. Yeoman Rand is a woman.
Charlie said: Oh, I won't hit her like that anymore.
Kirk said: No, there's more to it than that.
Charlie said: Everything I do or say is wrong. I'm in the way, I don't know the rules, and when I learn something and try to do it, suddenly I'm wrong!
Kirk said: Now wait, wait.
Charlie said: I don't know what I am or what I'm supposed to be, or even who. I don't know why I hurt so much inside all the time.
Kirk said: You'll live, believe me. There's nothing wrong with you that hasn't gone wrong with every other human male since the model first came up.
Charlie said: What if you care for someone? What do you do?
Kirk said: You go slow. You be gentle. I mean, it's not a one-way street, you know, how you feel and that's all. It's how the girl feels, too. Don't press, Charlie. If the girl feels anything for you at all, you'll know it. Do you understand?
Charlie said: You don't think Janice. You. She could love me!
Kirk said: She's not the girl, Charlie. The years are wrong, for one thing, and there are other things.
Charlie said: She can.
Kirk said: No, Charlie.
Charlie said: She is.
Kirk said: No.
Charlie said: But if I did what you said! If I was gentle!
Kirk said: Charlie, there are a million things in this universe you can have and there are a million things you can't have. It's no fun facing that, but that's the way things are.
Charlie said: Then what am I going to do?
Kirk said: Hang on tight and survive. Everybody does.
Charlie said: You don't.
Kirk said: Everybody, Charlie. Me, too.
Charlie said: I'm trying, but I don't know how.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Uhura said: You asked to be notified when we were to make our course adjustments, sir.
Kirk said: Ask Mister Spock to see to it. Charlie, come on with me.
Scene: Gymnasium.
Kirk said: You've got to slap the floor to absorb the energy when you fall. Go ahead, try it. Like everything else, it takes practice, Charlie. Try again. Good. That's much better. Here, now I'll show you a shoulder roll. Try that.
Charlie said: I don't want to do that.
Kirk said: Well, it makes it hard to teach you
Charlie said: I don't want to do that.
Kirk said: All right, Charlie. Lesson's over for today.
Charlie said: You were going to teach me how to fight.
Kirk said: You have to learn to protect yourself in a fall before I do that. It's more than teaching you to defend yourself. Charlie, I want you to learn. Charlie? Hey, Sam, let me borrow you for a couple easy throws, all right?
Sam said: Right.
Kirk said: Watch this, Charlie. That wasn't so bad, was it? Now I'll throw him. Here we go, Sam.
Charlie said: That looks hard.
Sam said: Oh.
Kirk said: Come on, Charlie. Try it. Attaboy. Let's go.;
Charlie can't make Kirk lose his balance. He gets dumped instead.
Charlie said: Oh!;
Sam laughs.
Kirk said: That wasn't so bad, was it?
Charlie said: Don't laugh at me.
Kirk said: Cool off.
Charlie said: Don't laugh at me!;
Sam disappears.
Kirk said: Charlie.
Charlie said: He shouldn't have done that. It's not nice to laugh at people.
Kirk said: What happened to him, Charlie?
Charlie said: He's gone.
Kirk said: That's no answer.
Charlie said: He's gone! I didn't mean to do that. He made me do it! He laughed at me.
Crewman said: Bridge.
Kirk said: Kirk here. Two men from security, on the double.
Crewman said: Affirmative.
Charlie said: What are you going to do to me?
Kirk said: I'm confining you to quarters. I want you to stay there.
Charlie said: I won't let them hurt me. I'll make them go away, too.
Kirk said: They won't hurt you, Charlie. (security arrive) They'll take you to your quarters, Charlie. Go with them.
Charlie knocks them down, one draws his phaser
Charlie said: No! (phaser disappears)
Kirk said: Go to your quarters.
Charlie said: He was going to hurt me.
Kirk said: Go to your quarters or I'll pick you up and carry you there.
Charlie said: I won't let you.
Kirk said: That's your choice, Charlie.
Charlie said: I won't let them hurt me.
Kirk said: They won't hurt you.
Uhura said: Captain Kirk.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Uhura said: Security reports that all phaser weapons have disappeared. Shall I repeat, Captain?
Kirk said: No, I heard you. Have Doctor McCoy and Mister Spock meet me in the Briefing room.
Scene: Briefing room.
Spock said: Thasians have been referred to in our records as having the power to transmute objects or render substances invisible. It has generally been regarded as legend, but Charlie does seems to possess this same power.
Kirk said: What are chances that Charlie's not an Earthling, that he's a Thasian?
Mccoy said: No, I don't think so, not unless they're exactly like Earthlings. The development of his fingers and toes exactly matches the present development of mans on Earth.
Spock said: Agreed.
Kirk said: Well, whatever he is, we have some idea of the power he has. I know what I saw him do in the gymnasium.
Mccoy said: Considering the effect a normal adolescent has on a home, Charlie with the power he has
Kirk said: Short-tempered, because he doesn't understand. He needs, he wants. Nothing happens fast enough.
Spock said: The probability is he's responsible for the destruction of the Antares, which would indicate a total disregard for human life.
Kirk said: He doesn't understand what life is. He's a boy.
Mccoy said: Well, what do we do with this boy, Jim? How do we keep him caged up?
Kirk said: It goes even further than that, Doctor. We can't take him with us to Earth Colony Five. Can you imagine what he'd do in an open, normal environment. I've talked with him, listened. He's a boy in a man's body, trying to be an adult with the adolescence in him getting in the way.
Spock said: And with a weapon in him which could destroy you or anyone, anywhere on this ship.
Mccoy said: Well, for the moment he's stopped. You're an authority he respects, Jim.
Spock said: Agreed. The struggle must remain between you and him. Should any of us interfere;
Charlie enters under guard
Charlie said: You wanted to ask me something, he said.
Kirk said: Are you responsible for what happened to the Antares, Charlie?
Charlie said: Why?
Kirk said: Answer me.
Charlie said: Yes. There was a warped baffle-plate on the shield of their energy pile. I made it go away. It would've blown up anyway. Well they weren't nice to me! They wanted to get rid of me. They don't now.
Kirk said: What about us, Charlie?
Charlie said: I don't know.;
Charlie leaves
Spock said: We're in the hands of an adolescent.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Lieutenant, raise Colony Five. I want to speak directly to the governor.
Uhura said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Navigator, lay a course away from Colony Five. Buy me some time.
Navigator said: Yes, sir.
Uhura's console short-circuits and she is thrown to the floor
Kirk said: Spock, get the doctor up here on the double. How bad is it?
Uhura said: I think it's all right, sir. Sir, there's no reason for that panel to cross-circuit like that. I checked it over myself not fifteen minutes ago.
Navigator said: Captain! I can't feed any course co-ordinates into the panel, sir. It rejects the course change.
Pilot said: Helm doesn't respond either, sir. (Charlie enters)
Kirk said: Mister Spock, you getting any readings on your instruments?
Spock said: Yes, sir. There's a Tyger, tyger, burning bright in the forest of the night.
Kirk said: Mister Spock.
Spock said: I'm trying to Saturn rings around my head, down a road that's Martian red.
Charlie said: You're trying to change course, Captain. You can't do that. I want to get to Colony Five as soon as we can.
Kirk said: Release the transmitter.
Charlie said: You don't need all that subspace chatter.
Mccoy said: What's going on here? Spock calls me to the Bridge and goes into some kind of poetry.
Kirk said: See to her, Doctor.
Spock said: Once upon a midnight dreary while I pondered, weak and weary.
Charlie said: Very nice, Mister Ears. Oh, I can make him do anything, whirl around, laugh, anything.
Kirk said: That's enough, Charlie.
Charlie said: Don't you think he's funny? I think he's funny.
Kirk said: Leave my crew alone. (Charlie leaves)
Spock said: Jim, he'll soon reach a point where he won't back down.
Kirk said: I know.
Scene: Corridor.
Tina said: Charlie, what's wrong? (he turns her into an iguana)
Scene: Rand's quarters.
Charlie said: I have something for you. (a rose) Pink is your favourite, isn't it?
Rand said: You don't walk into a room without knocking.
Charlie said: Don't ever lock your door on me again, Janice. I love you.
Rand said: I'll lock it when I please. What is it you want, anyway?
Charlie said: You. I only want to be nice to you. I can give you anything. Just, just tell me.
Rand said: (switching on comm.) I want you to get out.
Scene: Bridge.
Charlie said: But I only want to be nice to you.
Rand said: Get out, Charlie.
Kirk said: Spock.
Rand said: I can't make it any plainer than that.
Scene: Rand's quarters.
Charlie said: I love you.
Rand said: You don't know what the word means.
Charlie said: Then show me.
Rand said: No!;
Kirk and Spock rush in, Charlie knocks them down.;
Rand said: Charlie!;
She slaps him, so he makes her disappear.
Charlie said: Why did she do that? I loved her, but she wasn't nice at all. What you did wasn't nice either, but I still need you, Captain. The Enterprise isn't quite like the Antares. Running the Antares was easy. You have to be nice. All right? (gives pain)
Kirk said: Mister Spock?
Spock said: My legs. They're broken.
Kirk said: Let him go, too, Charlie.
Charlie said: Why?
Kirk said: Because I'm telling you to. Because you need me to run the ship, and I need him.
Charlie said: If you try to hurt me again, I'll make a lot of people go away.
Kirk said: And what about Yeoman Janice? Is she dead? Gone? Destroyed?
Charlie said: I won't tell you. Growing up isn't so much. I'm not a man, and I can do anything! You can't.
Scene: Corridor.
Spock said: I'll activate the force field myself. You can return to your section.
Charlie said: He had a mean look. I had to freeze him. I like happy looks. (enters room) Aren't you coming in?
A forcefield activates in the doorway so Charlie makes the wall go away and freezes Kirk and Spock.
Charlie said: That wasn't nice. You'll be sorry. You wait, you'll see, you'll be sorry you did that. (unfreezes them) You will.
He turns a young woman into an old one. Some crew are laughing in a room.
Charlie said: No. No laughing!
The shadows freeze, then a woman with no face feels her way around the corner
Scene: Bridge.
Uhura said: Captain Kirk, my instruments show we're receiving a message on subspace frequency three, ship-to-ship. I can't hear it, sir.
Kirk said: Are you creating that message, Charlie, or you're blocking one that's coming in.
Charlie said: It's my game, Captain. You have to find out. Like you said, that's how the game's played. You can have it now. I've locked on course for Colony Five again. (leaves)
Kirk said: I've waited long enough. I'm going to take him on.
Mccoy said: You don't have any special immunity. Not anymore. Pushed far enough, he'd send you off to oblivion, too.
Kirk said: Mister Spock?
Spock said: Out of the question.
Kirk said: Wait a minute. Does Charlie? Now, wait, Spock, has he done away with anybody since he took over?
Spock said: Not so far as we know.
Kirk said: Maybe he can't. Could be he's overreached himself. It's a big ship. He's taken full control. If we could tax his power, turn on every device on the ship, every circuit, every light, all of it, and while he's fighting that, if I could distract him, maybe you could tranquilize him, keep him under until we reach Colony Five.
Mccoy said: Risky, Jim.
Kirk said: If we don't try, Doctor, he'll get rid of us anyway. There's no choice, gentlemen, none at all.
Charlie said: I can make you all go away anytime I want to.
Kirk said: Get out of my chair, Charlie, and get out of it now.
Charlie said: I've got your ship, Captain.
Kirk said: Maybe, Charlie, but I don't think you can handle any more. I think you've reached your limit and can't take on one more thing, but you're going to have to.
Charlie said: I could've sent you away before, but I didn't.
Kirk said: You're going to have to take me on.
Charlie said: Don't make me do it now.
Kirk said: You've got my ship, and I want it back. I want my crew back, whole, if I have to break your neck to do it! (throws him out of command chair)
Charlie said: Don't push me. (gives Kirk pain) Sorry. I'm sorry but. Stop it. I said stop it!
Spock said: Captain, the navigation console is clear now. The ship is answering the helm.
Uhura said: Sir, something off our starboard bow. The message says they're from Thasus.;
Rand reappears
Charlie said: Oh.
Rand said: Captain, how did I?
Kirk said: It's all right, Yeoman.
Spock said: Sensors show there something's there, Captain. Deflectors indicate no solid substance.
Charlie said: No! Oh, no, please, don't let them take me. I can't live with them anymore. You're my friends. You said you were my friends, remember? When I came aboard! Please, I want to go home. Take me home.
Thasian said: I have taken my form from centuries ago, so that I may communicate with you. We did not realise until too late that the boy had gone, and we are saddened that his escape cost the lives of the first ship. We could not help them, but we have returned your people and your ship to you. Everything is as it was.
Charlie said: I won't do it again. Please, I'll be good. I won't ever do it again. I'm sorry about the Antares. I'm sorry! When I came aboard! Please, I want to go with you. Help me!
Kirk said: The boy belongs with his own kind.
Thasian said: That would be impossible.
Kirk said: With training, we can teach him to live in our society. If he can be taught not to use his power
Thasian said: We gave him the power so he could live. He will use it, always, and he would destroy you and your kind, or you would be forced to destroy him to save yourselves.
Kirk said: Is there nothing you can do?
Thasian said: We offer him life, and we will take care of him. Come, Charles.
Charlie said: Oh, please, don't let them take me. I can't even touch them! Janice, they can't feel. Not like you! They don't love! Please, I want to stay. (fades away)
Uhura said: Charlie's back on board the Thasian ship, sir. They signal they're leaving.
Kirk said: It's all right, Yeoman. It's all over now.