Balance of Terror
Stardate: 1709.2
Original Airdate: 15 Dec, 1966
Scene: Ship's Chapel.
Scott said: The ceremony will be carried on all viewing screens, sir.
Kirk said: Good.
Mccoy said: There was a call for you from the Bridge.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Spock said: Still no answer from Earth Outpost number two, Captain, and now number three's gone silent.
Kirk said: Maintain course to outpost four. Keep me informed. Kirk out.
At the door, a young lady in gold uniform and a pretty head-dress takes Scott's arm and is escorted into the room, to the strains of 'Here Comes The Bride'. Kirk goes to the rostrum.
Kirk said: Since the days of the first wooden vessels, all shipmasters have had one happy privilege. That of uniting two people in the bonds of matrimony. We are gathered here today with you, Angela Martine, and you, Robert Tomlinson, in the sight of your fellows, in accordance with our laws and our many beliefs so that you may pledge your
Sulu said: Alert! Alert! All decks alert! Alert! Alert! Captain to the Bridge. All decks alert.
Kirk said: Kirk here.
Spock said: Earth Outpost four reports they're under attack. A space vessel, identity unknown.
Kirk said: Full ahead. All decks, condition red.
Scene: Corridor.
Sulu said: All decks, condition red. All decks, condition red.
Captain's Log, stardate 1709.2. Patrolling outposts guarding the neutral zone between planets Romulus and Remus and the rest of the galaxy, received emergency call from outpost 4. The U.S.S. Enterprise is moving to investigate and assist.
Uhura said: Outpost 4 reported under attack, sir. Then message terminates.
Spock said: Verified, Captain.
Sulu said: Our speed is now maximum, sir.
Stiles said: Position, eight minutes from Outpost four at this velocity, sir.
Kirk said: Scotty.
Scott said: I've talked to my engine room, sir. We'll get more speed out of her.
Kirk said: Did Outpost 4 give anything at all on the attacking vessel, Lieutenant?
Uhura said: No identification, sir.
Stiles said: There can't be much doubt who's attacking, sir.
Kirk said: Mister Spock, put this star sector on our screen. Now show our position. Signal this to all decks, Lieutenant.
Uhura said: All decks standing by, sir.
Scene: Corridor.
Kirk said: This is the Captain speaking. In our next action, we can risk neither miscalculation nor error
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: By any man aboard. Listen carefully. Science Officer.
Spock said: Referring to the map on your screens, you will note beyond the moving position of our vessel, a line of Earth outpost stations. Constructed on asteroids, they monitor the Neutral Zone established by treaty after the Earth-Romulan conflict a century ago.
Scene: Sickbay.
Spock said: As you may recall from your histories, this conflict was fought,
Scene: Engineering.
Spock said: By our standards today, with primitive atomic weapons and in primitive space vessels
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Which allowed no quarter, no captives. Nor was there even ship-to-ship visual communication. Therefore, no human, Romulan, or ally has ever seen the other. Earth believes the Romulans to be warlike, cruel, treacherous, and only the Romulans know what they think of Earth. The treaty, set by sub-space radio, established this Neutral Zone, entry into which by either side, would constitute an act of war. The treaty has been unbroken since that time. Captain.
Kirk said: What you do not know and must be told is that my command orders on this subject are precise and inviolable. No act, no provocation
Scene: Engineering.
Kirk said: Will be considered sufficient reason to violate the zone. We may defend ourselves,
Scene: Sickbay.
Kirk said: But if necessary to avoid interspace war,
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Both these outposts and this vessel will be considered expendable. Captain out.
Stiles said: We know Outpost four has been attacked, sir, so if we intercept Romulans now
Kirk said: After a whole century, what will a Romulan ship look like, Mister Stiles? I doubt they'll radio and identify themselves.
Stiles said: You'll know, sir. They're painted like a giant bird-of-prey.
Kirk said: I had no idea that history was your specialty.
Stiles said: Family history. There was a Captain Stiles was in the space service then. Two Commanders and several junior officers. All lost in that war, sir.
Kirk said: Their war, Mister Stiles. Not yours. Don't forget it.
STILES; Yes, sir.
Spock said: Outpost two coming into sensor range, Captain.
Kirk said: Outpost 2 was the first to go silent, Lieutenant?
Uhura said: Yes, Captain, then Outpost three an hour later.
Spock said: Sweeping the area of Outpost two. Sensor reading indefinite. Double-checking Outpost three. I read dust and debris. Both Earth outposts gone, and the asteroids they were constructed on, pulverised.
Kirk said: Open a channel to our nearest command base. Quarter hour reports on our position and status.
Uhura said: Yes, sir.
Kirk said: Call battle stations, Mister Sulu.
Sulu said: Battle stations. All hands to battle stations. Battle stations. Battle stations. All decks acknowledge. All decks acknowledge, sir. All stations show green.
Kirk said: Energise main phasers, Mister Styles. All weapons to full power.
Stiles said: All weapons to full power. Phaser control room.
Scene: Phaser Control.
Stiles said: Energise. Acknowledge.
Angela said: (the bride) Phaser control acknowledging. All weapons energising to full.
Robert said: (the groom) Happy wedding day, almost.
Angela said: You won't get off my hook this easily. I'm going to marry you, Mister, battle or phaser weapons notwithstanding.
Robert said: Well, meanwhile, temporarily at least, I am still your superior officer. So get with it, Mister.
Tec 1 said: Port weapons show ready.
Tec 2 said: Starboard and midship weapons show ready.
Angela said: Acknowledge. All weapons batteries ready.
Scene: Bridge.
Stiles said: Outpost four now five minutes away, sir.
Spock said: And showing on my sensors, Captain. At least it's still there.
Uhura said: Sir, regaining contact with Outpost four. Switching to speakers.
Hansen said: Outpost four. Do you read me, Enterprise? This is Commander Hansen.
Kirk said: Kirk here. We're minutes away, Hansen. What's your status?
Hansen said: Outposts two, three, and eight are gone. Unknown weapon. Completely destroyed, even though we were alerted. Had our deflector shield on maximum. Hit by enormous power. First attack blew our deflector shield. If they hit us again with our deflector shield gone. Do you read me, Enterprise?
Kirk said: Confirm what hit you, Hansen. What vessel? Identity?
Hansen said: Space vessel, only glimpse of.
Kirk said: Can you locate the intruder for us?
Hansen said: Negative. It seems to have disappeared somehow. I have you on my screen now. Switching to visual.
Kirk said: Tie us in.
Uhura said: Tied in, sir.
The viewscreen shows a man in a wrecked room, surrounded by fires
Hansen said: Enterprise, can you see it? My command post here. We're a mile deep on an asteroid. Almost solid iron. And even through our deflectors, it did this. Can you see?
Kirk said: Affirmative. You're visual, Hansen. What do you have on the intruder?
Hansen said: No identification. No answer to our challenge. Only a glimpse of it. Then they fired something at us, some form of high-energy plasma. Fantastic power. And then the whole vessel disappeared. But it's out there somewhere. Our sensors show that much. Enterprise, something coming on our viewing screen, coming at us fast.
Kirk said: Lock us onto your screen.
Hansen said: Switching. Can you see it, Enterprise? Can you see it? It's becoming visible in the centre of my screen.
A ship appears from nowhere on the screen
Kirk said: Do you have phaser capacity? We're still out of range.
Hansen said: Negative. Phasers gone. Weapons crew dead.
Kirk said: Make a challenge. Warn that ship off.
Uhura said: Trying to, sir. They don't acknowledge.
The alien ship fires a big red plasma ball, and the viewscreen switches to Hansen as the outpost is hit, then just bright light. Back to the attacking ship, which then vanishes.
Spock said: Outpost four disintegrated, Captain.
Kirk said: Position of the intruder, Mister Spock.
Spock said: Disappeared. Interesting how they became visible for just a moment.
Kirk said: When they opened fire. Perhaps necessary when they use their weapon. SPOCK: I have a blip on the motion sensor. Could be the intruder.
Kirk said: Go to full magnification.
Sulu said: Screen is on full mag, sir.
Kirk said: I don't see anything. I can't understand it.
Spock said: Invisibility is theoretically possible, Captain, with selective bending of light. But the power cost is enormous.
They may have solved that problem.
Uhura said: Continuing to challenge, sir. Still no response.
Kirk said: Discontinue. Contact remaining outposts. Have them signal us any sightings or sensor readings in their area.
Uhura said: Yes, sir.
Spock said: Blip has changed its heading. And in a very leisurely manoeuvre. They may not be aware of us.
Kirk said: Their invisibility screen may work both ways. With that kind of power consumption, they may not be able to see us.
Spock said: His heading is now one eleven mark fourteen. The exact heading a Romulan would take, Jim, for the Neutral Zone and home.
Kirk said: Parallel course.
Stiles said: Don't you mean interception course, sir?
Kirk said: Negative. You and Mister Sulu will match its course and speed with the object on our sensors exactly, move for move. If he has sensors, I want him to think we're a reflection, an echo. Under no circumstances are you to cross into the Neutral Zone without my direct orders.
Sulu said: Acknowledged, sir.
Kirk said: Cancel battle stations. All decks, standby alert.
Sulu said: Cancel battle stations.
Stiles said: Captain, may I respectfully remind the Captain what has happened? The Romulans have crossed the Neutral Zone, attacked our outposts, killed our men.
Kirk said: Mister Stiles.
Stiles said: Add to that the fact it was a sneak attack.
Kirk said: Mister Stiles, are you questioning my orders?
Stiles said: Negative, sir. I'm pointing our that we could have Romulan spies aboard this ship.
Sulu said: I agree, sir. Respectfully recommend all decks maintain security alert.
Kirk said: Very well. All decks, security alert.
Sulu said: Security alert, sir.
Uhura said: Picking up communication. It's from their ship.
Kirk said: Pipe it in.
Uhura said: Sounds like code, sir.
Spock said: I have a fix on it, Captain. I believe I can lock on it, get a picture of their Bridge.
Kirk said: Put it on the screen.
Up shimmers an image of a group of four humanoids around a console. One leaves his post and salutes the figure with his back to us. That figure then turns, and we see someone who looks just like - a Vulcan. Both Spock's eyebrows hit the ceiling. There's a long silence and a lot of stares. KIRK: Decoding?
Uhura said: Cryptography is working on it, sir.
Stiles said: Give it to Spock.
Kirk said: I didn't quite get that, Mister Stiles.
Stiles said: Nothing, sir.
Kirk said: Repeat it.
Stiles said: I was suggesting that Mister Spock could probably translate it for you, sir.
Kirk said: I assume you're complimenting Mister Spock on his ability to decode.
Stiles said: I'm not sure, sir.
Kirk said: Well, here's one thing you can be sure of, Mister. Leave any bigotry in your quarters. There's no room for it on the Bridge. Do I make myself clear?
Stiles said: You do, sir.
Uhura said: Transmission has been cut off. (to Spock) I made a tape of it, sir.
Spock said: Very well. (runs the tape through his computer)
Sulu said: Something visual ahead, Captain, at extreme range. He's changing course, sir.
Kirk said: Stay with him, helm.
Sulu said: Turning, sir.
Scene: Romulan ship.
We're given a lovely shot of the bird painted on it's belly
Commander said: We grow visible. Attend the cloaking system.
Romulan said: It consumes much power, Commander. With no enemy to concern us.
Commander said: That Earth outpost called to an Earth vessel. Now it follows us.
Romulan said: Which neither retreats nor grows nearer. It turns as we turn. Commander, it is our judgment we run from a reflection.
Commander said: Perhaps so, but my judgment prevails.
Romulan said: Cloaking system on, sir.
Commander said: It is good we approach the Neutral Zone. Not too soon for me to see the stars of home. I know they are following.
Centurion said: (an older man) If an Earth ship, why does he not attack?
Commander said: First study the enemy, seek weakness. If I were their commander, that is what I would do.
Decius said: My Commander sent for Decius.
Commander said: A message was dispatched. You've broken the rule of silence.
Decius said: Only in code, Commander. To inform our Praetor of this glorious mission.
Commander said: Your carelessness might have ended this glorious mission. You're reduced two steps in rank. Return to post.
Centurion said: Take care, Commander. He has friends, and friends of his kind mean power. And power is danger.
Commander said: Danger and I are old companions.
Centurion said: We've seen a hundred campaigns together, and still I do not understand you.
Commander said: I think you do. No need to tell you what happens when we reach home with proof of the Earthmen's weakness. And we will have proof. The Earth commander will follow. He must. When he attacks, we will destroy him. Our gift to the homeland, another war.
Centurion said: If we are the strong, isn't this the signal for war?
Commander said: Must it always be so? How many comrades have we lost in this way?
Centurion said: Our portion, Commander, is obedience.
Commander said: Obedience. Duty. Death and more death. Soon even enough for the Praetor's taste. Centurion, I find myself wishing for destruction before we can return. Worry not. Like you, I am too well-trained in my duty to permit it. Continue evasive manoeuvres. Now, back to the first course.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: They're turning, sir. We're staying with them.
Spock said: Steady on one eleven mark fourteen. Back on their original course, Captain, toward the Neutral Zone.
Kirk said: What's our position, navigator?
Stiles said: We'll enter the Neutral Zone in less than an hour, sir. Assuming, of course, that we don't turn back.
Scott said: We now have aboard debris from Outpost four, Captain.
Kirk said: Bring it to the briefing room. Are you ready, gentlemen?
Scene: Briefing room.
Spock said: From the outpost's protective shield. Cast rodinium. This is the hardest substance known to our science.
He crushes it with his hand
Spock said: Lab theorises an enveloping energy plasma forcing an implosion.
Kirk said: Comments?
Spock said: Obviously, their weaponry is superior to ours, and they have a practical invisibility screen.
Mccoy said: You're discussing tactics. Do you realise what this really comes down to? Millions and millions of lives hanging on what this vessel does.
Spock said: Or on what this vessel fails to do, Doctor.
Kirk said: Yes, well gentlemen, the question still remains. Can we engage them with a reasonable possibility of victory?
Scott said: No question. Their power is simple impulse.
Kirk said: Meaning we can outrun them?
Stiles said: To be used in chasing them or retreating, sir?
Kirk said: Go ahead, Mister Styles. I called this session for opinions.
Stiles said: We have to attack immediately.
Kirk said: Explain.
Stiles said: They're still on our side of the Neutral Zone. There would be no doubt they broke the treaty.
Sulu said: Attack, without a visible target? How do we aim our phasers?
Stiles said: Aim with sensors. Not accurate, but if we blanket them
Sulu said: And hope for a lucky shot before they zero in on us?
Stiles said: And if we don't? Once back, they'll report that we saw their weapons and ran.
Sulu said: And if they could report they destroyed us?
Stiles said: These are Romulans! You run away from them and you guarantee war. They'll be back. Not just one ship but with everything they've got. You know that, Mister Science Officer. You've the expert on these people, always left out that one point. Why? I'm very interested in why.
Kirk said: Sit down, Mister.
Spock said: I agree. Attack.
Kirk said: Are you suggesting we fight to prevent a fight?
Mccoy said: Based on what? Memories of a war over a century ago? On theories about a people we've never even met face to face?
Stiles said: We know what they look like.
Spock said: Yes, indeed we do, Mister Stiles. And if Romulans are an offshoot of my Vulcan blood, and I think this likely, then attack becomes even more imperative.
Mccoy said: War is never imperative, Mister Spock.
Spock said: It is for them, Doctor. Vulcan, like Earth, had its aggressive colonising period. Savage, even by Earth standards. And if Romulans retain this martial philosophy, then weakness is something we dare not show.
Spock said: Do you want a galactic war on your conscience?
Kirk said: Captain to Bridge.
Uhura said: This is Uhura, Captain.
Kirk said: What's our position?
Uhura said: Course unchanged, sir. Estimating treaty boundary in twenty one minutes.
Kirk said: Are you continuing to broadcast tactical reports?
Uhura said: Affirmative, Captain.
Kirk said: And at this distance?
Uhura said: Approximately three hours before receiving a reply to our first message.
Kirk said: Thank you, Lieutenant. Check our course ahead, Mister Spock.
Spock said: A comet, magnitude seven, dead ahead, and the intruder changing course toward it.
Kirk said: Comet Icarus four. Composition?
Spock said: Quite ordinary. An ionised mass, a trail of frozen vapour particles.
Kirk said: And when an object passes through it, even an invisible object?
Spock said: It leaves a visible trail.
Kirk said: Our chance, gentlemen. Prepare to attack. All hands, battle stations. I hope we won't need your services, Bones.
Mccoy said: Amen to that. We're taking a big gamble, Jim.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Battle status?
Sulu said: All stations manned, Captain.
Stiles said: Phaser weapons energised. Set for proximity blast.
Spock said: Intruder now bearing directly for comet's tail.
Kirk said: Plot his exact point of entry, Mister Stiles.
Stiles said: Computed. On the board, sir.
Kirk said: The moment he begins entering the comet's tail, he becomes visible. End run, gentlemen. We'll swing around the other side and catch him at that moment.
Sulu said: Acknowledged, Captain.
Spock said: He's maintaining that bearing, Captain.
Kirk said: Let's get him, Mister Sulu.
Scene: Romulan ship.
Commander said: How pleasing to the eye it is. Behold a marvel in the darkness.
Centurion said: You spoke of entrapment.
Commander said: Its many particles will obscure their sensing device, Centurion.
Romulan said: We enter it, Commander.
Commander said: Once fully obscured, we will turn suddenly back upon our adversary.
Romulan said: At last the screen is clear, Commander.
Commander said: Clear?
Romulan said: Our reflection no longer follows us.
Commander said: Escape manoeuvre one, quickly!
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: We're losing sensor contact, Captain.
Kirk said: Steady as she goes. Phaser crews ready?
Sulu said: Phaser crew signal ready, sir.
Kirk said: He'll only be visible for a moment. Stand by.
Sulu said: Sir, nothing in
Kirk said: At the last moment he must have guessed our move. Hard to starboard, helm!
Sulu said: Hard to starboard.
Kirk said: He did exactly what I would have done. I won't underestimate him again. Now, fire blind. Lay down a pattern. STILES: Traverse pattern. All phasers fire.
Scene: Phaser control.
Robert said: Phaser one, fire.
Crewman said: Phaser one, fire.
Pulse phaser shots go into the darkness, rocking the Romulan ship
Robert said: Phaser two, fire.
Crewman said: Phaser two, fire.
Scene: Romulan ship.
The Centurion pushes his Commander out of the way of a falling beam
Commander said: Divert all power to weapons.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Phaser overload. Control circuit burnout.
Spock goes under his station to put out the flames
Spock said: It'll take time to correct, sir.
Sulu said: Captain, are they surrendering?
The Romulan ship has become visible
Kirk said: Full astern! Emergency warp speed!
A red plasma blast is heading towards them
Kirk said: Do we have emergency warp?
Sulu said: Full power, sir. It's still overtaking us. If we can get one phaser working, sir, one shot might detonate it.
Kirk said: Navigation?
Stiles said: Estimate it'll overtake us in two minutes, sir.
Kirk said: Phasers, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Impossible, Captain.
Kirk said: Feed this to the space recorder and jettison immediately.
Rand said: Captain, should I continue log entry?
Kirk said: Yeoman. Affirmative. Continue log entries.
Rand said: Yes, sir.
Sulu said: Ten seconds to impact. Captain, It's dissipating, sir.
Stiles said: It must have a range limit.
Rand stands as close as humanly possible to Kirk
Sulu said: Five, four, three, two, one. Impact!
Everyone gets thrown about a bit
Kirk said: Limited range.
Spock said: Phasers operational, Captain. Intruder bearing one eleven mark fourteen.
Kirk said: Back to his old course.
Spock said: He may think we're destroyed, Captain.
Kirk said: I wouldn't make that assumption. I don't think their Captain will either.
Spock said: Intruder holding steady. Course one eleven mark fourteen.
Kirk said: Same as before, Mister Sulu. Stay with him.
{Romulan ship]
The Commander tends to his injured friend
Romulan said: Commander, the reflection returns.
Commander said: Activate our cloak.
Romulan said: Commander, our fuel runs low.
Commander said: Quickly!
Decius said: The Earth vessel? Impossible.
Romulan said: It moves as we move.
Commander said: Its commander is not one to repeat a mistake.
Scene: Bridge.
Stiles said: We'll enter the Neutral Zone in one minute, Captain.
Mccoy said: Do we violate the treaty, Captain?
Spock said: They did, Doctor.
Mccoy said: Once inside, they can claim we did. A set-up. They want war, we furnish the provocation.
Spock said: We're still on our side, Captain.
Kirk said: Let's get them while we are. Before we enter the Neutral Zone. Full ahead, Mister Sulu. Maximum warp.
Sulu said: Ahead, sir. Maximum.
Kirk said: Phasers, stand by.
Stiles said: Sir, at this distance?
Kirk said: We know their Achilles heel, Mister Stiles. Their weapon takes all their energy. They must become visible in order to launch it.
Stiles said: A phaser hit at this distance would be the wildest stroke of luck.
Kirk said: I'm aware of that, Mister Stiles. Are phasers ready?
Stiles said: Phasers show ready, sir.
Scene: Romulan ship.
Romulan said: Commander!
Commander said: Evasive action. The Earth ship again.
They are hit by phaser fire again
Scene: Bridge.
Stiles said: Twenty seconds to Neutral Zone, sir.
Kirk said: Lieutenant Uhura, inform Command base, In my opinion, no option. On my responsibility, we are proceeding into the Neutral Zone. Steady as we go, Mister Sulu. Continue firing.
Scene: Romulan ship.
Decius said: Commander, they stay within range. I will tend to the centurion.
Commander said: No need. The Centurion is dead.
Decius said: Why don't we fire, Commander?
Commander said: No. No, he's shrewd, this starship commander. He tries to make us waste energy. He has estimated we have only enough. It is time. All debris into disposal tubes.
Decius said: Yes, Commander.
Commander said: The body of the Centurion, too. Forgive me, my old friend, but I must use all my experience now to get home.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock said: Motion sensor signal stopped.
Kirk said: Cease fire.
Sulu said: Debris scatter ahead, sir. We've hit him.
Spock said: Vessel wreckage. Metal moulds, conduit, plastoform and a body, Captain. However.
Kirk said: However?
Spock said: Insufficient mass, sir.
Kirk said: What?
Spock said: Simple debris. Not a vessel, a trick.
Kirk said: Go to sensor probes.
Spock said: Nothing, sir. No motion out there at all. We've lost them, Captain.
Captain's log, Stardate 1709.6. We are at the Neutral Zone. Have lost contact with the intruder. No reaction on our motion sensors but believe the Romulan vessel to be somewhere close by; With all engines and systems shut down, the Enterprise is also playing the silent waiting game in hope of regaining contact.
Scene: Bridge.
The lights are being dimmed and systems shut down as they rig for silent running
Spock said: Captain, I must make further repairs on the transfer coil. It's giving out again.
Kirk said: All right, Mister Spock, work quietly.
Scene: Romulan ship.
Decius said: Now twenty full cycles, Commander. Still no sign. I say he's been fooled. He must have gone on.
Commander said: Shh. He is there, somewhere. I feel it.
Captain's log, supplemental. Now motionless for nine hours, forty seven minutes.
Scene: Kirk's quarters.
Yeoman Rand walks in without knocking, to find the Captain lying on his bed.
Rand said: Can I get you something from the galley, sir? Coffee, at least?
Kirk said: Thank you, Yeoman. Bring it to the Bridge. I'll be there in a moment.
Rand said: Yes, sir.
McCoy walks in unannounced, and Rand leaves.
Kirk said: I wish I were on a long sea voyage somewhere. Not too much deck tennis, no frantic dancing, and no responsibility. Why me? I look around that Bridge, and I see the men waiting for me to make the next move. And Bones, what if I'm wrong?
Mccoy said: Captain, I
Kirk said: No, I don't really expect an answer.
Mccoy said: But I've got one. Something I seldom say to a customer, Jim. In this galaxy, there's a mathematical probability of three million Earth-type planets. And in all of the universe, three million million galaxies like this. And in all of that, and perhaps more, only one of each of us. Don't destroy the one named Kirk.
Scene: Bridge.
Spock carefully closes the cover on his repairs, and is reaching up to his station to help himself up when he accidentally touches a button, turning on a system
Stiles said: What?
Kirk said: It's all right. It's all right.
Scene: Romulan ship.
Romulan said: A signal, Commander.
Commander said: We have him. Move toward him.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Power on. Reverse course. He'll try to slip under us.
Sulu said: Lateral power, sir.
Stiles said: Coming around, sir.
Kirk said: Phasers, fire.
Stiles said: Phasers, fire.
Scene: Romulan ship.
They are taking damage
Decius said: How, Commander. How?
Commander said: He's a sorcerer, that one. He reads the thoughts in my brain. Our fuel supply all but gone and he stays out of reach.
Decius said: We are beaten. Can it be true? The Praetor's finest and proudest flagship beaten.
Commander said: Perhaps we can yet save your Praetor's pride for him. More debris into the tubes. Decius, do we have the old-style nuclear warheads aboard?
Decius said: Yes Commander, but only for self-destruction.
Commander said: Place one with the debris. Proximity fuse.
Decius said: Yes, Commander. At once.
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: More wreckage, sir, scattering across our path.
Kirk said: Cease fire.
Spock said: Debris on our scanners.
Kirk said: Analysis, quickly.
Spock said: Same type as before, sir, except, one metal-cased object!
Kirk said: Helm, hard over. Phasers, fire point-blank.
Stiles said: Phasers, fire!
There's a big explosion, everyone gets thrown across the Bridge. Enterprise hangs crooked and motionless in space.
Scene: Romulan ship.
Decius said: Glorious. Glorious.
Commander said: Now we go home.
Decius said: They're at our mercy. Commander, I remind you of your duty.
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Captain to Sickbay.
Mccoy said: McCoy here.
Kirk said: Casualties?
Mccoy said: Twenty two so far. Mainly radiation burns, mostly from the ship's outer areas. Could have been much, much worse, Captain.
Kirk said: Thank you, Doctor. (the lights come back on) Report, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Nuclear device of some kind, sir. Our phasers detonated it less than one hundred metres away.
Kirk said: Ship damage?
Spock said: Mainly overloads and circuit burnouts.
Kirk said: Weapons status?
Scott said: We've only the forward phaser room, Captain.
Kirk said: Fully operable, Scotty?
Scott said: Yes, sir. But Specialist Tomlinson is manning it alone. No standby crew available.
Stiles said: Sir, my first assignment was in weapons control.
Kirk said: Go. Lieutenant Uhura, take over navigation.
Uhura said: Yes, Captain.
Spock said: We have engine power now, Captain, if you'd like to move off and make repairs.
Kirk said: Maybe we can pull them back to our side of the Neutral Zone. Hold our position. Play dead.
Scene: Romulan ship.
Decius said: Still no sign of movement, Commander.
Commander said: We've damaged ourselves. Our fuel reserve is gone.
Decius said: And it is our duty to crush the Praetor's enemies.
Commander said: I do not trust their Captain.
Decius said: We are in the Neutral Zone. They will not enter. If you refuse, permit me the glory of the kill, Commander.
Commander said: We will attack, but on my order.
Scene: Phaser control.
Spock said: Damage reports, Mister Stiles?
Stiles said: Negative.
Spock said: Will you require assistance here?
Stiles said: This time, we'll handle things without your help, Vulcan.
Spock leaves. then Stiles notices purple gas escaping from a seal
Stiles said: Tomlinson!
Scene: Bridge.
Sulu said: Enemy vessel becoming visible, sir.
Kirk said: Forward phasers, stand by. (the Romulan becomes a clear image) Fire! Fire! Stiles, can you hear me? Fire!
Scene: Corridor.
Spock is walking slowly when he hears the Captain's commands over the intercom
Kirk said: Fire! Stiles, can you hear me? Fire!
Spock turns and runs back to Phaser Control
Kirk said: Fire!
Scene: Phaser Control.
The room is full of purple smoke
Kirk said: Stiles, can you hear me? Fire! Stiles!
Spock enters just as Stiles tries and fails to reach the firing button. He activates the controls and the phaser pulses hit the Romulan ship
Scene: Bridge.
Kirk said: Mister Sulu, prepare to move in on the Romulan vessel. Ship-to-ship, Uhura. Put this on the screen.
Uhura said: (still at the navigation station) Hailing frequencies open, sir.
The viewscreen shows a wrecked room and just the Commander still on his feet
Kirk said: Captain. Standing by to beam your survivors aboard our ship. Prepare to abandon your vessel.
Commander said: No. No, that is not our way. I regret that we meet in this way. You and I are of a kind. In a different reality, I could have called you friend.
Kirk said: What purpose will it serve to die?
Commander said: We are creatures of duty, Captain. I have lived my life by it. Just one more duty to perform.
He goes to the control console, turns a switch, and the whole ship explodes
Scene: Sickbay.
Kirk said: Are you all right, Mister Spock?
Spock said: Yes, very well, thank you, Captain.
Kirk said: And you, Stiles?
Stiles said: I'm alive, sir. But I wouldn't be. Mister Spock pulled me out of the phaser room. He saved my life. He risked his life after I
Spock said: I saved a trained navigator so he could return to duty. I am capable of no other feelings in such matters.
Kirk said: How many men did we lose, Bones?
Mccoy said: Only one. Tomlinson. The boy who was getting married this morning. His fianc�e is at the chapel.
Kirk turns to go, and Rand enters
Rand said: We finally received an answer from Command base, sir. They say they'll support whatever decision you have to make.
Kirk leaves
Scene: Ship's Chapel.
Angela is kneeling in front of the altarpiece, crying, when Kirk enters. She gets up and hugs him.
Kirk said: It never makes any sense. We both have to know that there was a reason.
Angela said: I'm all right.